[Music]
The reality is there's a lot for the US
equity market to like. AI has the
potential to be the biggest productivity
enhancer for the global economy since
electricity.
>> What's different between now and the
late 1990s is that daytoday the
advancers are beating the decliners.
>> We're talking so much about AI now and
the market is melting up.
>> The S&P is just making new highs kind of
week on week and I think that's a little
bit cause for concern. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. World leaders are
heralding a deal that promises to end
the 2-year war between Israel and Hamas,
which is really giving people confidence
around the world if it holds. Stock
traders, meanwhile, still shrugging off
fears of an AI bubble and government
dysfunction with the S&P logging its
33rd record high close this year. And
now all eyes turn to corporate earnings
with Delta first out of the gate later
this hour. A real question about how
important that's going to be Emory given
the fact that we're not getting anything
else. We're not getting anything else.
We are still in a government shutdown.
So we're in this data desert and what
happens when you're in an economic data
desert at least when it comes to the
gold standard of economic data. You look
to the seauite to understand what is
going on with this economy. And when it
comes to Delta, Lisa, you know this
better than anyone else seeped in the
airlines. It's going to be on these
premium seats. Are the upper cohorts of
society? Is corporate travel still
robust? Are people still going out and
spending either domestically or
internationally? And that is going to be
on full display today.
>> It is the true barometer of the K-shaped
economy. Meanwhile, we do have a sense
that things are getting calmer around
the world, whether it's in France, we
can get to that later, or of course,
this deal that was struck overnight
between Gaza, between Hamas and Israel.
Do we have a sense of what the contours
of this three-phase deal really are?
This is a major breakthrough when it
comes to this war that has been going on
for almost 2 years to the day. What we
do know is that the hostages will be
released. We do know that Israel is
going to pull back to a certain line.
There's going to be more aid flowing
through Gaza. But of course, this is
going to be something that everyone is
going to be on the edge of their seat
holding their breath to make sure that
all parties involved are living up to
this negotiation. And the president last
night said actually he plans to go to
the region because this deal was inked.
>> Yeah. And we will wait uh to see what
happened. I want to just offer you
condolences cuz yesterday I just want to
let you know that I was 602.
Clearly you still have the mug out and
who knows what's in there. But I'm still
a fan. Yeah. Yeah. But you got to sleep
and that's the reason why
>> I was there last night. And also so many
Canadian viewers we all of a sudden I'm
learning all about you. I see your
direct messages. I see your IBS. I see
your emails. I will say congratulations.
>> Welcome to being a Mets fan. Meanwhile,
what we're seeing in the market is a
real softness uh just heading into the
open but really flat after 33
consecutive record highs. Not
consecutive, but throughout 2025 on the
S&P 500 going nowhere this morning.
Meanwhile, the dollar uh just uh gaining
a touch, a real question of whether
we've reached that pivot point where the
dollar weakening trend kind of plateaus
and a question on bond yields after that
10-year auction that was fairly solid.
30-year auction later today, 4.13%
rounded up on the 10-year. Coming up
this hour, Christian Miller, Glisten of
Goldman Sachs as stocks bounce back uh
to a fresh record high. Then we've got
Norman Rule of CSIS as Israel and Hamas
reach a breakthrough and Vincent
Reinhardt of BNY Investments on what the
government shutdown means for the Fed's
rate path, if anything at all. We begin
this hour with stocks a little change as
traders await the next round of
earnings. Christian Miller Gllisman of
Goldman Sachs writing this. We remain
modestly pro- risk in our asset
allocation. We continue to look for more
opportunities for international
diversification. Christian joins us now.
Christian, thank you so much for being
with us. I want to start the fears of an
AI bubble. You've been dismissing them
and saying that they are overplayed at
this point. Why do you shrug that off
and maintain a pro-risk uh kind of
stance?
>> Yeah. No, I think there's there's a few
things important here. I mean first of
all the health of the AI ecosystem in
aggregate is still quite good. You have
these mega cap tech stocks that have
strong balance sheets that are
profitable that can kind of leverage
their existing platforms and and and
kind of even without AI they're they're
good businesses. I think that's one part
of the reason and and I think the other
thing that is in bubbles you often see
overshoots on valuations. We haven't
really seen that in in the clearest way
especially in the last few months. um
most of the performance of the mega cap
tech stocks was actually driven by
earnings. So I think putting it all
together that on its own is is giving us
comfort. But there's one really other
important thing is we are somewhat late
cycle in the business cycle and and what
tends to happen is the the the kind of
uh equity market drivers are usually not
anymore the economy as much and not
anymore um kind of like the traditional
kind of growth picture accelerating
because you're midcycle. like it's it's
often linked to liquidity and easing and
and and structural opportunities and I
think this really supports the AI
complex right now. All of that
>> which means maybe it doesn't support the
rest of the market quite as much. What
are you looking for in terms of the
earnings that we're going to be getting
later this morning throughout the season
to edify this view of whether you really
have to consolidate your risk on stance
in the AI shares at least the United
States?
Yeah, I think what what's been quite
unusual is that you have this somewhat
weak labor market data and unfortunately
we don't have much data right now, but I
think going into this uh kind of
shutdown, we've had quite a lot of weak
weak data in the labor market. So we
need to have a confirmation that the
corporate sector continues to operate
well that it has kind of profit margins
that that are stable possibly even up
and and and that the whole ecosystem
around AI isn't slowing in a big way
that the that it can actually generate
profitability and still upside
convexity. I think these are the things
that that we are kind of looking for in
the earning season and I think that's
the main thing we have currently. I
think this goldilocks backdrop is very
different to the traditional one which
you have midcycle which normally like
Goldilocks means growth goes up without
inflation. Right now it is more like the
economy um and the equity market are
very different and the equity market is
doing really really well despite the
economy not being particularly healthy
um and and and triggering Fed easing.
So, so you don't want to disappoint too
much on on the real economy part in the
labor market and at the same time the
corporate sector needs to keep that
narrative alive that it's actually
operating at at very good levels.
>> Christian, how do you have opportunities
for international diversification? How
do you spot them given what we are
seeing in terms of a lot of paralysis
and political instability around the
world? I'm thinking of Japan. I'm
thinking of France. How do you decide
where you actually want to put money?
>> Yeah, it's a great question. I think to
me you want to think about like
different cycles. Um and we always look
at like the structural cycle, the
business cycle and the sentiment cycle
and depends on your investment horizon
where you kind of want to go. If you
look structurally I think what we've
always been saying it's a fight between
inflation and innovation and you need to
have exposure to those areas. You need
to hedge and diversify inflation. You
need to have exposure to innovation.
innovation currently is is is very high
in the US, very high in China and the
ecosystem in the global tech sector. So
so there's plenty of opportunities to
potentially diversify beyond the US mega
cap tech and possibly diversify beyond
AI and beyond the AI capex beneficiaries
to more AI applications and and AI
beneficiaries directly. So I think there
is international diversification
structurally and then I think we come to
the the kind of diversification of
inflation part and I think all over the
world we have interesting infrastructure
assets interesting businesses that in
the long run have real cash flow growth
and also from a cyclical point of
perspective you can see that Europe and
Japan have lacked materially. So so so
you could say that there is also a
cyclical element that points you a bit
towards like Europe and Japan currently.
So you want to look for these
opportunities and sentiment especially
on Europe is very depressed right now.
So there's plenty of opportunities to
think about international
diversification.
>> Could a headline like Emanuel Mrron the
French president announcing a new prime
minister be a catalyst for this
depressed European market?
>> I don't know. I think we we've been very
focused on the German fiscal spend as a
potential catalyst. In a lot of our
conversations with clients, there's a
lot of skepticism and cynicism about uh
the German fiscal spend. So, if you
start to see the money flow, that could
really um kind of make people focus a
bit more on the reflation potential that
comes out of Germany for for for the
rest of Europe as well. And in terms of
the French situation, I would say it's
been treated as a very insulated um and
relatively contained problem. Um and as
a result of that, the type of relief you
can get um is probably somewhat limited
as well. But in France, you certainly
seen quite a lot of volatility, some
selloffs in the in the French banks, the
French domestic stocks. You might see a
bit of recovery there. Um, but but I
wouldn't necessarily say there's a huge
amount of French risk premium that's in
European assets currently.
>> You haven't seen it necessarily trickle
in. You say innovation and inflation.
And I think buy stocks, buy gold. Where
does that leave bonds?
>> I don't know. like uh I find like bonds
are still um somewhat a less attractive
proposition in the medium term for
investors compared to the last
generation of investors. We all know
that bonds were really since the '9s
since the late '9s a very favorable
asset because it diversified equities
but it had a trend in the bond yields
that actually meant the sharp ratios you
got in bonds were were unusually
attractive and we think that's quite
unlikely in the coming years. So going
forward you need to probably work with
equity bond correlations that are on
average close to zero and sharp ratios
for bonds might be lower especially as
we talk about fiscal dominance. Um so
you might also get lower real returns
over time from bonds. So I think like
currently we're very surprised about the
flows. If you look at fund flows here to
date into bonds, they're still
incredibly strong where people just seem
to be attracted to the current level of
yields, especially in credit, um because
they compare it to the last cycle, but
the next cycle, the next structural
macro regime, is probably justifying
those higher yields. They're not going
to come down anymore. Certainly not in
the back end. So to us, we don't really
think that that bonds are that
attractive. Tactically, they might help
you in case you get one of these
recession scares coming from the US
labor market because the Fed still wants
to buffer. But strategically, it's not
not an easy proposition what the bonds
are offering.
>> Have you replaced any of your bond
portfolio, government bonds of developed
markets with gold. I mean, this seems to
be one of the the theories out there
that this is certainly going on at
central banks. Are you recommending
clients do that as well?
>> I don't know. Like to me, like bonds
have a very interesting characteristic.
they have a a risk reducing
characteristic and they have a return
generating characteristic. So they offer
yield and in risk off they also kind of
can protect you. Gold doesn't really
have a yield um and and the riskoff
relationship is is not always that
clean. So it cannot be a perfect
replacement for bonds. We have plenty of
other strategies like liquid
alternatives and and other things we're
discussing with clients where you can
think about um kind of replacing bonds.
But we do think gold has has a a quite
interesting role to play in the
portfolio to diversify fiscal dominance
to to to provide a long-term hedge for
inflation. But what I would say though
is obviously the performance in the last
few weeks has accelerated so much that
that you have to be a bit careful about
positioning tactically.
>> Christian Miller Glistman of Goldman
Sachs, wonderful to get your thoughts.
Thank you so much for joining us this
morning as we parse through how to
understand the bubble thiefs as well as
some of what we've seen with respect to
Emanuel Mcron. the idea that he could
name a new prime minister and you've
seen a complete reversal in terms of
market activity overnight with a renewed
hope that maybe France isn't falling out
of bed.
>> Well, at the moment that doesn't seem
like they are because there seems to be
some sort of plan potentially and
they're going to have a new prime
minister so Manuel Macron for now is
able to hang on. But for how long? How
many times are we going to see this
cycle? That prime minister was in power
for 27 days. Will the next one last more
than that? That remains to be seen. But
it's just this entire idea that you
point to at the end. Political
instability is rife right now in a
number of countries. There's a lot of
political uncertainty in terms of policy
in Washington. So where else do you go?
And a lot of people are saying gold
offers that safety.
>> Yeah. Well, talking about geopolitics
right now, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here's a
little brief with Yahara and Jihara.
>> Hi Lisa. Israel and Hamas have reached a
deal for the release of all hostages
held by Hamas in Gaza. In return, Israel
will will release almost 2,000
Palestinian prisoners and withdraw
troops to an agreed upon line. President
Donald Trump said he expects the
hostages to be released on Monday and
said he will likely travel to the region
to celebrate the deal. Meanwhile, as you
all were discussing, French President
Emanuel Mcronone said he'll name a new
prime minister by tomorrow evening,
avoiding the need to call for a snap
election. An outgoing premier Sebastian
Cornu said sufficient progress had been
made to allow work to begin forming a
new cabinet and that there are
possibilities for a compromise in
parliament. And here the US government
shutdown is now in its ninth day with no
end in sight. The IRS announced plans to
furlow just under half of its staff and
said workers would be given back pay
when the government reopens. Meanwhile,
the White House is considering a plan to
withhold back pay for furoughed federal
workers. We'll have more when House
Minority Leader Hakeim Jeff joins Lisa
and Anmarie at 8:15 a.m. Eastern. Dutch
Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Yahara. Up next,
Israel and Hamas reach a deal.
>> The world has come together around this
deal. Hostages are going to be released.
It's probably uh our time would be
probably Monday. I think you're going to
see people getting along and you'll see
Gaza being rebuilt.
>> Coming up next, we've got Norman Rule of
CSIS to give us some insight on what the
process is, what the phases really are.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
Welcome back on a morning where a lot of
people are gleaning optimism from what
we heard overnight. Israel and Hamas
reaching a deal. Right now, what we're
seeing in markets is a calam after
yesterday's 33rd record high on the S&P
500 essentially flat. You're seeing gold
uh build on record highs. Meanwhile,
under surveillance this morning, Israel
and Hamas reaching a deal.
>> The world has come together around this
deal. I said, "Israel cannot fight the
world, Bi. They can't fight the world."
And he understands that very well. So,
it's amazing the way it's all come
together. Hostages are going to be
released. It's probably uh our time
would be probably Monday. I think you're
going to see people getting along and
you'll see Gaza being rebuilt. Uh we're
forming a council that uh the council of
peace we think it's going to be called.
>> Here's the latest. Israel and Hamas have
reached a deal for the release of all
the hostages remaining in Gaza. The
agreement is a major step toward ending
the 2-year war. Our team coverage starts
right now. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall in
Washington. Jumanna Bucheti in Dubai.
Jumanna, I want to start with you. Do we
understand what the contours of this
deal actually are?
>> Yeah, that's right. So, a major
diplomatic breakthrough, also a win for
President Trump. He announced it on True
Social in the middle of the night,
saying that both sides, Israel and
Hamas, had agreed to phase one of the
broader peace deal. And in that phase
one, we're talking about the release of
the 48 hostages, 20 of them still
thought to be alive in exchange for up
to 2,000 Palestinian prisoners in
addition to the IDF withdrawing to a
pre-agreed line. uh unclear at this
point where exactly that line is but we
heard from the IDF a short while ago
suggesting that they have already
started preparing operationally to to
proceed with that withdrawal to a
certain line. Now beyond that there are
certain there are elements that are
missing uh including what happens with
Hamas disarmament whether or not there's
actually going to be some sort of a
mechanism to enforce that disarmament
that's always been a point of discussion
uh and and a red line as far as Israel
are concerned what happens with the
future withdrawal of IDF forces from the
Gaza Strip currently around 70 70% of
the strip is still under IDF control and
then those bigger questions around
future governance. Uh President Trump
speaking there about the establishment
of this board of peace that he said that
he would look to chair. Who will be
participating in that and what is it
actually mean for effective governance?
Who effectively on the ground will be
involved in the governance of this trip
in addition to the rehabilitation and
reconstruction. So some really big
picture questions here. But what I will
say it is is a day of of s hugely
sentimental value over here in the
region and could mark the end of a
devastating two-year war. But the big
question is is it the beginning of
peace? Meanwhile, Tyler, uh we are
hearing that President Trump could be
heading to the region in the next few
days. What do we know in terms of the
US's involvement and President Trump's
uh entering into Israel potentially
soon?
Well, Lisa, I actually was in the room
yesterday when Secretary of State Marco
Rubio made this unexpected visit to a
separate White House event that
President Trump was holding in the state
dining room and slipped him this piece
of paper, which our understanding said
that substantial progress on this deal
had been made and that he could soon
announce it on Truth Social. It was
after that that President Trump
subsequently confirmed to us reporters
in the room that he has plans to visit
the region. He suggested that he would
be headed to Egypt to meet up with his
key negotiator, special envoy Steve
Wickoff, as well as his son-in-law Jared
Kushner, and that he would also
potentially be visiting Israel on this
trip as well. We know, Lisa, that this
White House has really been shoring up
ties with regional partners ahead of the
announcement to this deal. Of course, it
is brokered around that 20point plan
that we saw President Trump unveiled
last week when Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu was here in
Washington making his fourth visit to
the White House. Bloomberg's Jima
Bersetti in Dubai, Tyler Kendall in
Washington. To both of you, thank you so
much. Let's turn to Norman Rule of CSIS
who wrote, "It is a profound and
historic moment. However, this phase of
the deal is fragile. It will leave the
IDF in control of 42% of Gaza and Hamas
will remain armed." Norm joins us now
for more. Norm, what will you be looking
for to understand whether this deal
remains in place and can lead to phase
two and then phase three?
Good morning. Um, this weekend we'll see
an extraordinarily complicated series of
movements taking place simultaneously.
The IDF will need to withdraw tanks,
pull back its drones so that Hamas and
perhaps Egyptian teams uh move out to
not only uh identify the location of
living and uh the remains of hostages,
but start engaging with Red Cross teams.
Hundreds of tons of humanitarian uh
supplies are going to be pulled into the
uh region. You're going to see the
movement of uh of freed prisoners from
Israel to 2,000 uh Hamas personnel are
going to be uh coming out and moving
throughout the uh uh Gaza area. This is
going to be a very very active uh
environment. No ceasefire is perfect.
Things may go wrong and we're going to
see how each side responds to this.
There is a tremendous amount of
intensive diplomacy going on behind the
scene involving all partners. Jared
Kushner and Steve Whit are working today
in in in Egypt to finalize details. And
this diplomacy is going to contain all
of this activity and make sure this
stays uh um uh in the direction where we
needed to go. And then once this
happens, we're going to want to see that
momentum continue into the important
second phase to begin to address all of
those issues and to build on this
fragile momentum.
>> Norma, who is going to be running Gaza
in the interimm? Who's going to be
collecting the weapons? Who's going to
be logistics on the ground?
>> Well, those things, it's not just that
they need to be worked out, but they
need to be worked out in a way that each
side can save face. So Hamas will need
to be able to deliver those weapons to
an entity that it will be able to claim
is a Palestinian entity, but such an
entity doesn't actually exist. So it's
going to have to be an internationally
supervised entity of sort, but maybe
Palestinians will receive it. They'll
Egyptians will have to be involved. This
will take some detailing of to be worked
out and probably I would suspect this is
happening right now in Cairo, but it's
just not going to be made public. Who
comes into country, those names are
almost certainly being put together
right now. But again, this doesn't need
to be made public. And the people who
are really focusing on this right now,
frankly, uh it's not the problem we need
to look at this weekend. This weekend,
we need to make sure that uh hostages,
prisoners, humanitarian aid, all these
things happen. Once we get this done,
then we can have that momentum uh built
upon.
>> Norm, as you've been talking about,
there has been intense diplomacy
regarding this agreement that's been
happening in Egypt. Where is the
Palestinian Authority in all of this?
>> Well, the Palestinian Authority is uh
it's weak. Um the president uh Abbas Abu
Mazin is not a strong actor. He's
expected to be uh moved out in and
replaced in future elections. Uh the
Palestinians need to identify a future
leadership. They need to identify and
build a new architecture of governance.
And they've got to prove that this
architecture is not going to be
militant. It won't be corrupt. It will
be effective. And that the remnants of
Hamas who will attempt to survive, who
in in the in the after the previous
Israeli withdrawal took over will not
then turn this into a repeat uh uh form
of militant governance. They're going to
have to prove that they can sustain
themselves. And again, that's why that
international entity needs to be on the
ground and assist them through this
process. This won't be neat. It may not
be pretty, but the sooner we can start
this process, the sooner we can all
begin to work this. And the partnerships
that the Trump administration has
established with Qar, Turkey, and the
Arabs in the region, the Egyptians will
will will profound provide profound
support to make this happen. We have
good reason to be optimistic.
>> Norm, we just have about 30 seconds. Do
you know who's going to pay for the
reconstruction given that that's going
to be such a crucial part of creating
stability?
>> We're going to be looking at one of the
most expensive reconstruction projects
in the history of the world. It's also
an urgent reconstruction project. So,
we're going to look at uh something that
needs to be planned to take place over
many years. And uh the Gulf is going to
be turned to, but they're not going to
throw money into uh uh projects that
have uh endless budgets. So, I think
we're going to look at a a planning
process. that's going to take some time
to uh uh work through.
>> Norman Rule of CSIS, thank you so much
for your insights and we'll be catching
up with you, I'm sure, again, as we
parse through exactly what happens and
as we understand what happens over the
weekend with respect to whether this
does hold. This weekend's going to be
really important in terms of also both
these parties really understanding the
trust that is in this agreement and can
they actually get to phase two. Most
importantly are the hostages and of
course aid going into Gaza. Coming up,
we're going to be talking uh about the
geopolitics, but also domestically, how
the Fed deals with not having any kind
of information. Vincent Reinhardt of BNY
Investments joining us next. Plus, Danny
Burgerer with your morning movers. US
rare earth stocks are rising as China
curbs exports. More on that in a minute.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
After 33 record highs on the S&P 500,
looking for a little calm this morning,
a bit stasis uh pretty much across the
board, what we're seeing not a lot of
action, maybe slight losses. Uh but
still early days as we head into
earnings and as we head into a slew of
corporate executives speaking.
Meanwhile, what you do see is gold. It
has been on a tear. We have seen it
break through 4,000 today. Taking also a
bit of a breather 3 hours away from the
cash open. Here's your morning movers
with Danny Ber. Danny.
>> Hey Lisa. Ferrari having a huge drop.
It's both Italy and US listed. You're
looking at the Italian shares dropping
12%. It is on track for its worst
performance since 2016. And unveil new
financial targets and they were seen as
very conservative punishing them even
though Ferrari usually gives
conservative price targets. Even so,
this is a car maker that's outperformed
every single other listed car maker
except for Tesla. So, expectations are
high for them. They also announced
yesterday they were scaling back some of
their EV ambitions. Elsewhere, it is the
rare earth companies that are having a
really solid day. Critical metals, one
of the best, up 6.7%
after China looking at curbing exports
of rare earth metals for their part. It
comes ahead of a meeting between uh the
presence of both the US and China in
South Korea. And so you're feeling the
stress there. Again, a lot of these
companies owned uh MP materials and
other chat of maybe the US taking stakes
in some of these other companies.
Finally wrapping things up with earnings
after the bell that we got yesterday and
that was Costco. Uh not earnings rather
monthly sales and their sales for
September an 8% gain even with really
tough comparables. It's that value
shopping that is drawing consumers to
Costco. And they saw across categories.
Fresh food did really well. Jewelry did
well. So even kind of a more like
affordable luxury sort of feel to it.
And their online shopping sales also
were extremely strong. So those shares
in the pre-market up 1.5%. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Danny, right now we
are getting more corporate earnings.
We've got Delta crossing with a beat in
terms of their expectation with their
fullear adjusted earnings per share at
about $6 versus the estimate of 525 to
625. So on the higher end, the estimate
had been 580. We are seeing those shares
pop up by more than 5%. A story of
reaceleration that we have heard from
United CEO. Similar story from Delta
into the holiday season. Bloomberg's
Benedict Camel joins us now to uh give
us some more insight. Benedict, how much
is this a broad-based resurgence versus
concentrated at the front of the cabin?
>> A lot of it is indeed at the front of
the cabin. As you said, Delta and United
have really pushed a lot of their
business into that more lucrative end of
the aircraft and that's really where the
money is made. Uh we spoke to Ed Baston,
the CEO, head of the earnings, and he
said, "Look, the the demand is out
there. It's really robust. The consumer
is still prepared to spend." So there is
really no slowdown there. But what you
saw as well today in the numbers is the
back of the cabin is also recovering.
That's a tough end of the market. It's
very hard fought after. Uh you've got a
lot of budget carriers pushing into that
segment but Delta did manage to achieve
something of a turnaround. Also in the
back so across the aircraft really a
strong set of results here for the
company. Bloomberg's Benedict Camel,
thank you so much. And we will be
following the story as it does really
kick off the third quarter earning
season and getting a view from the
seauite going to be that much more
important without any other information
coming from official sources. On our
radar this morning, Israel and Hamas
reaching a deal to free hostages held in
Gaza. A major step toward ending the
two-year war. The agreement is based on
a plan unveiled by President Donald
Trump, who said the captives would
probably be released on Monday.
Meanwhile, China unveiling broad new
curbs on rare earth exports, demanding
licenses for rare earths. The move
giving Beijing more leverage heading
into the high stakes meeting between
President Donald Trump and Xihinping
later this month. I do wonder, Emory, if
that's the right way to look at it, as
leverage rather than a renewed kind of
trade war that could potentially styy
manufacturing of cars and other types of
uh uh technology in the United States.
>> Absolutely. Because China has already
used this playbook. They already made
rare earths an issue for this US
government. And then guess what
happened? All of a sudden, the H20 chip
was back on the table as a negotiating
tool for the US. But the fact that China
is doing this with rare earths, whether
or not it's before discussions or not,
is actually going to play to the
administration's other policy of saying
it's absolutely appropriate in their
mind to take stakes in all of these rare
minerals and earth companies because
they are going to say, you see, this is
why it is a national security concern.
which is the reason why we're focused on
lithium stocks and bridges connecting uh
Alaska to Canada. Meanwhile, US Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson has finished
interviewing 11 candidates to replace
Fed chair Jay Powell. According to the
Financial Times, candidates were grilled
for up to two hours on their views on
interest rates and Fed reforms. And
perhaps we will actually get a couple of
the final candidates who can make their
debut in discussions and in the race.
Sticking with the Federal Reserve Fed
minutes showing caution to ease driven
by inflation concerns. Vincent Reinhardt
of BNY Investments writing this. With
the federal government shutdown, less
data are available which we think makes
a data dependent Fed more likely to
ease. Vincent joins us now. Wonderful to
see you. It's been too long. I want to
start there. this idea that actually the
meeting minutes showed what the dots
showed which is a huge dispersion of
opinions and a lot of people who are
reluctant to ease again heading into the
year end. Why is a government shutdown
change your uh your your calculus?
>> So what they did in September lays the
tracks down for what they do in October.
And what did they do in September? They
eased uh but they didn't strongly signal
policy action and they emphasized data
dependence. and then they let every one
express their own view in the summary of
economic projections. Makes it really
hard to send a coherent message when you
let everyone uh uh uh address their own
view of the appropriate policy rate. But
what was important about that is they
were leaning toward policy ease and said
they were data dependent. What that
means is the data has to stop them. I.e.
Do you get evidence that disproves the
case that it's appropriate to ease?
That's what reconciled the whole group
to the policy choice. Guess what? They
don't have data that can disprove the
case.
>> We just got data about 6 minutes ago
from Delta. They came out with their
earnings and the expectation that
actually there's going to be a
reaceleration into the end of this year
with consumer demand not just at the
front of the cabin but throughout the
entire cabin coming back. I just wonder
is that data that actually should be
relied on more given the fact that we
aren't getting official data and that
the data that that have been released by
the United States have been mixed.
>> Uh so they'll have to rely more on
private data. Uh they're already
scraping lots of big data sources. is
there's lots of individual uh vendors
and don't forget it's the Federal
Reserve system which means that you have
all that staff at reserve bank talking
to uh business people all over the
country in their uh summarizing that in
their beige book. So they have a lot of
in uh sources of information uh they
don't have an official impetour on it uh
but uh uh that has a couple
consequences. One is they're not flying
blind. However, we're more in the dark
about how they're flying
>> because they're using private
information that won't be conveyed to
us.
>> Okay. But you were at the Fed for what,
almost a decade?
>> Uh, it's actually a quarter century, but
>> Okay.
>> Well, tell us what do you think they're
looking at that's not the gold standard
economic data that comes out of BLS. Uh
so uh what I can tell here is you're
filling the entire media block uh with
the news that is out and that's earnings
reports and surveillance. So they are
looking at whatever they got and what do
they have? They have a lot more than
they had previously. Uh lots of
information from credit card processors,
lots of information from the uh uh big
block stores uh that have up to the
minute uh uh uh data on pricing and and
sales. Uh they'll get credit reports,
they'll get the anecdotal reports. And
what do we notice in in in COVID? There
was a whole blossoming of new indicators
of high frequency demand. What was that?
You apply a lot of resources with a lot
lot of information. They're going to do
their best and that's what they're doing
now.
>> There's not a ton of debate about what
the Fed will do the rest of the year.
How are you thinking about next year?
Especially as Lisa was just mentioning,
the Treasury Secretary just wrapped up
his interviews for who's going to lead
the Fed.
>> Uh completely different. Uh this year is
easy. this year is let's agree on a
macro forecast. Let's think how has the
Fed previously uh acted, what is an
appropriate policy rule, and then just
plug your numbers in and that will get
you probably another half point of
easing in 2025. It's a closer call
toward the end of the year. Exactly.
Because maybe inflation will come up. uh
maybe the economy won't soften as much
as they're they're they're worried
because you know they're easing as as
for risk management. They're buying
insurance by the end of the year they
may not need it. Next year completely
different. Why? Because the Federal
Reserve system is set up so that the
leadership of the Fed
turns over with the political process.
So the administration will get new slots
and the Federal Reserve system the whole
is is is set up to give the board
preeminent role in monetary policy. So
the White House is going to use that.
>> As an economist watching this, does it
worry you that you've seen such a
devaluation of the dollar and that
you've seen gold increasingly take hold
as a haven type of instrument? Uh so I
have a Bloomberg worksheet uh right on
my desk which is independence watch.
What do you look for if there were
concerns about uh the future of central
bank monu policym in the United States?
Uh you would look at non-dollar assets.
So you would look at gold. You'd look at
the price price of some crypto. Uh you
would also look as hard as you can at
the whole term structure of US interest
rates. A little worrying that yes yield
the the very little volatility in the
bond market 10 years is is been
flatlining but the 10 year 10ear forward
has drifted up uh and some measures of
inflation compensation have come up thus
far. Not a lot of warning flares flares
in markets about worries about central
bank independence, but we think that's
going to come.
>> Vincent Reinhardt, thank you so much.
Great to see you. Vincent Reinhardt of
BNY Investments. We are seeing the least
volatility right now in the bond space
and bond implied bond yields uh going
forward since 2021, even amid auctions
concern about this inability to really
pinpoint inflation
>> and a government shutdown as well. So,
you're kind of, you know, flying blind.
There's a government shutdown and the
market's just shrugging it off.
>> Yeah, right now I'm looking at my eco
screen and it just is this huge yellow
banner.
>> It's getting a little depressing.
>> US government data releases are impacted
by shutdown. That's all you got right
now. Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. We do have this.
Here is your Bloomberg brief with Yahira
Anandhra.
>> Hi Lisa. Delta Airlines reported better
than expected third quarter results
helped in part by leisure travelers
splurging on premium seats and a rebound
in corporate travel. The company said it
sees robust demand continuing in into
2026 and CEO Edbastian said the airline
hasn't seen any impact to its operations
from the ongoing government shutdown.
Shares are up 5.8%.
Meanwhile, the US is approving several
billions of dollars worth of Nvidia chip
exports to the United Arab Emirates.
Sourc is telling us here at Bloomberg
the approval comes after the UAE made
concrete plants for a reciprocal amount
of investments to the US. The licenses
mark the first permits for Nvidia AI
chip sales to the UAE since President
Donald Trump took office. And Netflix is
making its video games available for
play on TVs for the first time.
We are now announcing, we announce here
actually that we're going to have these
social party games, a pack of social
party games that you can play on your TV
with your phone as the controller. And
it's things like, you know, recognizable
games like Bogle, you got Pictionary,
we've got a Lego party game, we've got
Tetris, we've got like a mafia style.
Uh, who done it?
>> The company has been offering games for
4 years, but until now, users had to
play those games on mobile devices
rather than on their TVs. Seth Bloomberg
briefs. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yah. Games more we
need them for the kids. Maybe they
shouldn't be listening to this. Up next,
not that a flight to safety. We have
gold rising another 10% by the end of
next year. Uh but with significant
upside with reserve managers in central
banks realizing that the truly only safe
asset if you hold it in your domestic
vaults is gold. Mark Chandler of
Benickburn joins us next on that. This
is Bloomberg surveillance.
[Music]
It's a quiet morning at least so far on
the SP stock space. You're seeing uh
basically stasis after 33 record highs
on the S&P 500 so far this year. 31
record highs on the NASDAQ. So, this
might be a buyable dip considering the
one down day uh that we've seen in more
than a week was quickly bought
yesterday. Meanwhile, what you are
seeing is gold pretty much also reaching
stasis after climbing through 4,000
yesterday for the first time. It has
been a record streak for that and under
surveillance this morning. This has been
the flight, the flight to safety.
>> We have gold rising under 10% by the end
of next year. uh but with significant
upside with reserve managers in central
banks realizing that the truly only safe
asset if you hold it in your domestic
vaults is gold. Cycllically with 100
basis points of additional Fed cuts, you
get an additional boost because ETF
holdings tend to rise in the gold
markets when rates come down.
>> Here's the latest. Gold on track for its
best year since 1979.
While the US dollar faces its steepest
yearly decline in more than 50 years,
Mark Chandler of Banickburn saying this.
I'm not sure the dollar has lost its
global standing. To me, the dollar's
brand has been tarnished. Mark joins us
now. Mark, thank you so much for being
with us. Let's start with understanding
what the difference is between being
tarnished and losing its cloud.
>> I absolutely think that the dollar's
rule as the key financial currency in
the world has really changed in the last
12 months. I think that what we're
seeing is primarily a cyclical
development and not this big structural
like the whole world is boycotting the
dollar or something like that. As you
know from the tick data, the US
treasuries data, foreigners have bought
more US assets this year uh through
through July or August than they did
last year or the year before that. So I
I think that uh what oftentimes happens
I think on the markets is that people
attribute structural factors to what
turns out to be cyclical factors. And I
think that the dollar's decline it's
still overvalued against most of the G10
currencies. And so I think this is just
a cyclical adjustment after something
like a 10-year dollar rally. So how do
you understand Mark the idea that
central banks around the world are
diversifying away from dollar
denominated bonds, dollar denominated
assets going more into gold in a sea
change that we really haven't seen
before in terms of its size and scope.
>> Yes.
>> So I agree that there has been some
central bank buying of gold. I think
that we also tend to exaggerate why why
these central banks are buying gold. For
example, it's not just as a uh as a
criticism of US or something like that.
Poland, for example, which is a NATO
member, has bought more gold this year
than China. So, I do think that there is
some diversification going on. But I
think that when you see these charts
that show uh foreign central banks own
more gold than treasuries, I think it's
really just a reflection of valuation.
That is gold has shot up while
treasuries haven't. So, I I I'm not so
concerned about that. And I I I really
think that we we've got to just keep it
in perspective, too. Think about what
China has over $3 trillion
of reserves and only a couple hundred
billion dollars in gold. I just don't
think the gold market is big enough to
really supplant the role of global bonds
as reserve assets.
>> So do you think this rally can continue?
I think at some point it's going to hit
a pause.
>> If you're talking about the rally in
gold, I have no problem with gold
rallying further. But I think that we we
confuse what's going on again. It's not
just the central banks. It's people like
myself who are buying gold because it's
moving higher. We're momentum traders,
trend followers. They have to sucked
into gold as well and silver for that
matter. So I I think that it's not just
central banks, it's retail. And when you
look at the correlations which you know
Bloomberg allows makes it very easy to
do. Gold and risk assets like stocks are
moving up together. So that tells me
when there is a big setback in the stock
market, there's likely to be a big
setback in gold as well. It's not just a
safe haven. It's also, like I say,
highly correlated to other risk assets.
>> But don't you think there are some
underlying issues with political
instability around the world or
political nervousness, whether it's in
Asia, in Japan, whether it's France, in
Europe, whether it's just uncertainty at
what's going on in the United States
when it comes to the direction of
policy.
>> Yeah. No, I think that I think that's
the uh that's the narrative, right? is
that uh the the war in the in in uh
Russia's war on Ukraine. Uh peace in the
Middle East and you saw what happened uh
with the uh the deal struck. Gold sold
off about $25 or $30 uh held that $4,000
level in the spot market and bounced
right back. So, it doesn't seem like
it's just geopolitics, but I do agree
that there has been some demand for gold
that's based on this uncertainty. Uh but
you know, the the Japanese election was
just this past weekend. the French
problem, a political problem has sort of
been persisting all year. Um, and we
could see a Belgium downgrade ahead of
the weekend by Moody's uh, which has
Belgium on negative credit watch. So,
yeah, I I am concerned about that, but I
still don't really buy into that gold's
going to be the big savior of all this.
>> Mark, I'm just wondering how tied the US
dollar is to AI and this idea that
American exceptionalism is deeply
intertwined with the tech prowess of the
likes of Apple and Amazon.
I think you're right, Lisa. I think that
people like myself expected the US
economy to do somewhat worse than it's
been performing so far this year. And
part of the story that macro people like
me missed, I think, is just that role of
AI. I think I read one estimate that
suggested that AI accounts for about 40%
of growth this year in the US. So people
like myself, I think, underestimated
that role of AI. And I think it it it
helps explain the resilience of the US
economy. But I'm still concerned about
the performance of the labor market. I
think that that's going to lead to a
slowdown. Um, and we just haven't quite
seen that filter through into the GDP
measures yet. Like I say, AI seems to be
a big part of that reason.
>> Mark Chandler of Banickburn, thank you
so much. As we watch the dollar gain a
little bit of ground versus the euro,
but we have seen it actually gain to an
Marie's point because of what we've seen
everywhere else, not because necessarily
the US is doing so well. I wonder though
if that changes. And we got Delta
earnings not that long ago, about 23
minutes ago. They were better than
expected. Their forecast going forward
is at the high end of the estimate. And
they talked about accelerating demand,
not only at the front of the cabin, but
also in the economy seats. And I'm just
wondering how much this sort of is the
economic data that we can rely on that
speaks to a brighter feeling in the US
economy.
>> Well, at the moment, it feels like it's
the only economic data. You just pointed
to the eco screen that still shows that
sadly we're not getting any data because
of the government shutdown. This was the
quote from the CEO that stood out to me.
Are customers financially in a good
spot? Which customer? The customer in 1A
or the customer that's sitting all the
way in the back of the plane. You talked
about the K-shaped economy. Peter Cheer
has been talking about the little I with
the dot that financial concentration
amongst the wealthy. We're seeing it as
well in the stock market and then
everyone else. And that is what we've
been seeing in the likes of Delta and
American United. When you look to the
other airlines, they're actually
struggling because they cater to a
different part of the economy.
>> Yeah. And actually Delta saying that
even its more budget uh oriented
offerings seeing ongoing demand, not
necessarily the same sort of robust
demand, but still that ongoing demand to
the point about corporate travel.
Corporate sales were 8% higher in the
third quarter. And the company said
about 90% of companies expect travel
volume to rise or remain steady in 2026.
I wonder how much this accompanies some
of the deal volume. We saw that from
Jeff. This idea that if all the
dealmakers are going to be as active as
we hear, they got to be getting on
planes and going to meet people. But
either way, what this points to is that
reaceleration even in the main economy
cabin. Ed Bastian, the CEO of Delta
saying that even that part of the plane
saw an improved sequential performance
in the third quarter. Again, how do you
square this with concerns about the
labor market with this idea that we are
seeing something that requires Federal
Reserve accommodation?
>> Well, this is a challenge. Are they
cutting into strength, which some people
have made that argument? It is a great
point though about what is going on in
terms of the lower-end consumer because
Delta last month cautioned about this
consumer and how that's been tough. It
seems to be that these individuals are
still chugging along and people are
still buying flights. corporate
spending. Have you seen some of the
fairs to go transatlantic? They are in
the double digits. So, in that end,
these airlines are making a ton of
money.
>> I'm just saying a main kind of event for
a lot of people can cost up to $14,000
to go transatlantic to go in some of the
front of the cabin.
>> Like a uh Swiss Alps adventure.
>> Who knows? All I know is that maybe I
won't be sitting there. What we are
seeing elsewhere is Pepsi also reporting
earnings and beating expectation with
those shares rising as well. We'll
continue breaking down the earnings
coming up next. Phil Camperelli of JP
Morgan, Don Schneider of Piper Sandler,
former senior White House adviser Amos
Hawkstein. Do not miss that. And Sal
Desai of Franklin Templeton fixed
income. Good morning.
[Music]
We're getting some type of softening in
labor demand. How big that is, we can
debate. We are cooling as an economy and
getting back to normal policy rates
seems to make sense in that backdrop.
>> Perhaps rates are not all that
restrictive given the elevated
valuations and wealth effect in the
economy. There's lots of stuff brewing
underneath the surface. Cuts seem a
little premature.
>> The slower the Fed goes up front, the
bigger the risk is that they have to do
a little bit more later.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. We're finally getting some
economic data from corporate America.
Delta earnings coming in better than
expected with US consumers still
shelling out. Meanwhile, optimism
abounds overseas as Israel and Hamas
strike a deal. What we are seeing in
markets is a bit of calm after 33 record
highs. I keep going back to this and the
AI investor sentiment survey coming in
at the highest levels that we've seen so
far this year. Amarie, a bit of a pause
this morning. And yet, nonetheless, it
seems like that reaceleration at least
in the initial forms that we're seeing
from Delta is taking shape. You look
where the stock market is. You mentioned
all the record highs. You see what Delta
is saying. It's not just the upper
cabins. They are seating seeing seating
in the maid cabin also improve as they
were quite nervous about those
individuals being able to get on planes
and fly. You wouldn't think that the Fed
needs to cut interest rates. You
wouldn't think that we were in a
government shutdown and people aren't
getting paid. So there does seem to be
this dichotomy of what corporate America
is saying, what the market is saying,
and what the Federal Reserve is really
concerned about at this moment. When you
look at the minutes overall, there is
this concern and bias to a weakening in
the labor market. And this does have
sort of a spin to it about who is going
to be the leader of the Federal Reserve
next year. Vincent Reinhardt of BNY
Investments came on earlier and said
next year completely changes. You've got
different leadership and then you have a
completely different calculus. Our
understanding is we're getting close to
actually understanding who that person
might be. Is that correct?
>> Well, the FT is saying that there was a
grilling between Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessant and some of his advisers
like uh Mr. Hunter McMaster, 11
candidates. We know where Trump's been
thinking. It's the Kevin, right? Um
potentially it's going to be the Kevin
or Governor Waller. Um but interesting,
the Financial Times gave a shout out to
Black Rockck's Rick Reer, a friend of
the show, saying he performed quote very
well. So potentially there's going to be
someone really from the outside that
could come in when it comes to this Fed.
And the Treasury Secretary has made it
very clear he doesn't want the data
dependency we've seen under Powell. What
he wants is more of a Greenspan Federal
Reserve that is forward-looking.
Meanwhile, the data dependency so far
has been coming from the corporations
really kicking off. Delta, I mentioned
Pepsi seeing a turnaround, signs of a
turnaround in US beverages driven by
soda. I guess we're drinking soda again.
Uh shares rising, announcing a new CFO,
which is interesting. It kind of speaks
to this changing of the guards that
we're seeing in a lot of corporations.
Also talking about uh trimming some
staff around the margins. So, are we
getting a jobless recovery? And that is
something that we keep wondering.
Meanwhile, later today, we do have 22
billion dollars of 30-year bonds being
auctioned. Yesterday's 10-year auction
went pretty well. You're seeing
quiescence in the bond market with
volatility dropping to its lowest level
going back to 2021. Meanwhile, you are
seeing gold still on a tear. I wonder,
Emory, since you're such a specialist in
the oil market, why you think there
isn't a bigger reaction in the oil
market to what we see with Hamas and uh
Israel? Well, I think you're just seeing
like the cooling of tensions and the
president has been talking about this
for months. I was in the room with him
recently when he was standing next to
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
talking about this peace plan. A lot of
people thought at some point this would
come together given the fact they have
all these players involved and constant
diplomacy is happening. At the same
time, really what's going on with crew
is just the fact that OPEC just
continues to release the valves and the
barrels have been flooding in. So,
that's the story that everyone's
focusing on.
>> Coming up, we'll be talking about that.
We'll also be talking about the AI
bubble that isn't Phil Campelli of JP
Morgan with Wall Street resuming its
record rally. Former senior White House
adviser Amos Hawkstein with a
breakthrough hostage deal between Israel
and Hamas and Sal Desai of Franklin
Templeton as a divided Fed struggles
with a dual mandate. We begin this hour
with stocks returning to all-time highs
trying to climb upward. Uh Phil Campelli
of JP Morgan writing, "While there is
always a lot of noise for investors to
parse through, uncertainty is moving to
certainty which will allow the market to
continue to grind higher." And Phil
joins us now for more. Phil, certainty.
Where is the certainty coming from? What
kind of certainty are you talking about?
>> So I'm talking about certainty and long-
end rates, Lisa, which we've talked a
lot about. So if you were to mark
tomarket the Federal Reserve on
September 17th when they cut rates, the
10-year note was at 4.1. And I think you
guys said today that the tenure note
today is 4.11. Right? So we are really
huge change and this is what's different
than last year because last year people
were saying okay federal reserve is
cutting rates without a recession and
then the 10ear note went up by a 100
basis points in the fourth quarter. This
year what we believe is that the tenure
note stays at around these levels.
Tenure note is the biggest kind of
stimulative rate on the yield curve.
It's not the federal fundry. Lisa, you
could actually make the case that
cutting the federal funds rate is not
stimulative because of all the cash that
people have on the sidelines that
they're going to be getting paid less
on. So our view here is the financial
conditions as measured by Goldman Sachs
care a lot about long-end rates and
credit spreads. And that financial
conditions index today easiest point
since 2022. And as you've mentioned a
couple of times, interest rate
volatility. I I call the move index the
older and wiser sibling of the VIX. like
everybody like the VIX is like the baby
child, right? And they're like everybody
everybody kind of pays attention to the
VIX. But then there's the wiser sibling
which is the move index and nothing gets
equity investors more nervous than when
they think bond people think something's
happening, right? So that low volatility
on the rate side does so many things. It
allows us as asset allocators to protect
ourselves with bonds, right? And I think
it loosens up just deal activity. That
M&A deal activity coming into this year
was the lowest since the.com bubble,
right? So all that stuff I think is
stimulative if if the if if rates behave
themselves.
>> All I could say is that might be the
case. It's not as if bond investors are
not nervous. You talk to every single
one of them. They're sort of cowering
and this feeling of stasis just because
there's no conviction on either side.
Are you saying that AI bubble concerns
are kind of irrelevant at a time where
there's a lot of liquidity?
>> Yeah. So for certainly so the liquidity
side is one of those things as the
market continues to find as liquidity
continues to try to find places to go. I
I want to bring the big beautiful bill
act in on this as well with AI. So this
this full this this this um a permanent
extension of the full depreciation of
domestic R&D. In other words, people can
do AI capex and they can write it off.
And I and I think that is a a really
important piece of the big beautiful
bill act along with maybe this part of
Delta earnings this morning. So, we
estimate that in the Big Beautiful Bill
Act that about 70% of households are
going to get a refund next year. That
refund is going to go from about $3,000
to about $4,000 on average. That's a
that's a huge deal. Now, you may say,
okay, what is that going to do to
inflation? But when we think about that
low income cohort, right, not everyone
has a stock portfolio, not everyone has
a 401k, not everyone has a house, right?
So that lower income cohort that may be
getting some help next year, I think
just creates a more resilient consumer
as we head into next year. And then on
the AI side, listen, you don't need
multiples to expand. Like we don't
expect the S&P 500 multiple to go from
22 to 30, but we do expect earnings
growth next year to be double digits,
which can deliver the return. And I'd be
remiss to not talk about the other
levers in the in the uh portfolio
working. EM's up 30 this year. ETH is up
in the low 20s and a globally I've never
said this to you guys in October. A
globally diversified portfolio is
keeping up with the S&P which is the
best best kind of kind of story I can
tell.
>> I want to pick on your point on the big
beautiful bill because it's a good point
but isn't it counteracted by the fact
that everyone's pretty much saying we're
going to get the tariff knockon effect
on prices next year?
>> Yeah, Amry, I' I've heard so like
companies like Walmart are waiting right
for this to happen. Um, and I certainly
think that's the case, but for
inflation, like to think, okay, is is
the Federal Reserve going to have to
make a U-turn and get hawkish next year
because of inflation? I think you'd have
to see it in something like shelter
costs. And you guys have done a great
job talking about kind of the components
of CPI. That goods price inflation,
Amaria, I don't I don't think is as
important as what's happening in
shelter, which we continue to think is
is a continued downtrend. Now also even
if inflation stalls at three or so it's
a nominal growth story that we care most
about most about. So nominal growth is
real GDP plus inflation. And if real GDP
we think next year is going to be about
two which is a little bit above trend
and inflation about about three. That's
5% nominal growth which again I think
fuels the earning story into next year.
>> When you say policy error is top of
mind. Do you mean out of the Federal
Reserve or out of the White House?
>> Um kind of kind of both. Right. I mean
it's it's if if anything has if we've
learned anything from this cycle is that
policy can turn on a dime, right? So I
think what
>> a little Yay.
>> Yeah. So I think into this year so I
think I think the the the Fed meeting at
the end of this this month is kind of
baked in the cake. I don't think the Fed
goes once and then stops. So I think
they go in in in October. We believe
chances are again they go in December.
But I would agree with your prior guest
Vincent Reinhardt on this. as we head
into next year, it's really difficult.
Not just because of the May of 2026
handover, but also because the economy
can change on a dime here. So, the
policy area that we're thinking about
that's front of mind is the transmission
mechanism. And this is how I started
this, right? Even if the Federal Reserve
is cutting rates, what's happening to
long end rates? Because that's that if
that transmission mechanis mechanis
mechanism is broken, the S&P should not
be a 22 times earnings here. The
transmission mechanism though is
dependent on data because this is a data
dependent Federal Reserve. We're not
getting data and actually if we're
>> second week in a row without claims what
am I going to do
>> setting normally this would be claims
Thursday but it's not claims Thursday
it's Delta Thursday because that's the
data that we have and the data that we
have points to a reaceleration which you
were talking about. So, if the Fed is
ignoring the reaceleration because
they're looking for an excuse not to cut
rates further, does that increase the
risk of that kind of inflationary boom
next year given the fact you're talking
about the big beautiful bill. You're
talking about the fact that consumers
are reacelerating and it doesn't seem
like things are losing momentum at least
from corporate executives suite.
>> Yeah, certainly. And that's why we we
have kind of this unknown into next
year. But it goes back to even again
even if you get this inflation pickup if
it comes with growth Fed could be on
hold and you can get the earnings the
earnings story uh into next year. So we
are not kind of holding um our portfolio
hostage to the Federal Reserve easing
policy next year. I just want to put it
there. Right. So a next couple of
meetings sure the Fed is responding to a
labor market that they think is stuck in
neutral. Now they responded to a labor
market last year when the sam rule got
triggered even though Claudia sam said
this time is different. And then by
December they were saying we're pretty
much done and we think inflation is
going to be higher next year. And then
instead of the Santa Claus rally,
everybody got coal in their stocking
last December. So that is something that
is top of mind for us. If they have to
change course based on an inflation
story that's picking up, which you just
pointed to, right? The fiscal story
definitionally can be inflationary. Uh
but we we need to figure out what the
growth story is. And the growth story is
what got people scared coming into uh
this year because of the tariff story.
And that's our story. Hopefully it's not
going to re reemerge next year.
>> And maybe that coal can be of turn to
diamonds. Let's do it. Terrible. All
right, Phil Keelli, thank you so much.
Really great to see you. Phil Keelli of
JP Morgan. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here's a
bloomer brief with the Hyra on Antihira.
>> Hi, Lisa. Israel and Hamas have reached
a deal for the release of all hostages
held by Hamas in Gaza. In return, Israel
will release almost 2,000 Palestinian
prisoners and withdraw troops to an
agreed upon line. President Donald Trump
said he expects the hostages to be
released on Monday and said he will
likely travel to the region to celebrate
the deal. Meanwhile, China has unveiled
new curbs on its rare earth exports,
citing national security grounds. the
curbs near Washington's own export
regime, which bans Chinese companies
from accessing cuttingedge chips and the
tools to make them. The provocative move
comes as the US and Chinese presidents
prepared to sit down at a summit in
South Korea to hammer out a trade deal.
And TSMC shares are rising after
reporting better than expected sales on
sustained AI demand. The world's largest
contract chipmaker reported revenue
rising 30%. TSMC executives see the
cloud computing buildout as a major
long-term growth driver. That's your
Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yah. And it is
interesting for people who are doubters
on the AI trade. The fact that TSMC
reported such a significant boost on the
margins you're seeing confirmation of
the AI story even amid all of the
naysayers.
>> Well, they are the designer for Nvidia,
AMD, Broadcom. They're all using these
chips. And you see all that money come
out constantly, all these new
announcements. Well, it's one place that
they're sending those back cash to.
>> Yeah, Lisa Sue is sitting pretty after
AMD shares up something like 93% so far
this year. Up next, federal paychecks in
jeopardy.
>> Would you encourage Congress to pass a
standalone bill to pay our service
members?
>> Yeah, that probably will happen. We'll
take care of it. Our military is always
going to be taken care of.
>> Don Schneider of Piper Sandler joining
us next from New York. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back. We are talking about uh
markets, about the economy. Amarie is
listening to the Yankees lose again last
night.
>> I'm just kidding. I just keep getting
trolled by these uh Canadian viewers. I
just see this sort of this and then I
hear noise and I see that cup the mug
that is filled with know what I know
you're just experiencing what the Mets
experience
>> exactly I'm I'm experiencing what the
Mets fans continuously Met fan
continuously go 1986 1986 I know
>> at least ours was sooner 2009
>> people yelled at me for not showing
enough class go and I'm sorry for your
loss right now in markets you are seeing
essentially a pause after 33 record
highs unchanged on S&P futures it really
has been remarkable to think of the
steady climb into any kind of wall of
worry. It was yesterday uh sort of the
reprieve, the buy the dip moment after a
momentary blip. Meanwhile, in the bond
space, it's also been really quiet. To
Phil Campelli's point, you've seen that
move index fall at some of the lowest
levels, the implied volatility in bonds
going back to 2021.
You are seeing uh nothing really going
on. 30-year yields lower ahead of a$22
billion auction at 100 p.m. Eastern,
4.7%.
And we don't check currencies anymore.
Now we just check gold. And what you can
see is gold kind of flirting with maybe
rising again uh for this unbelievable
unprecedented rise to a record high. The
gains more than 50%. And I do think it
is important to keep checking gold
considering how much people are
considering it as sort of an alternative
in terms of a haven trade.
>> Absolutely. 11 straight months in a row,
you see China once again doubling down
on this gold buying and Goldman Sachs is
talking about nearly 5K by the end of
next year. Almost this time next year,
we can see another rapid rise when it
comes to precious metal. And I love what
Mark Chandler had to say because it
really is so many different stories at
once. It's a dollar story, it's central
bank story, and it's political
instability around the world.
>> Yeah. Which is the reason why a lot of
people are saying maybe this is
something that actually does stick.
under surveillance this morning. We're
also focused on Washington DC. Federal
paychecks in jeopardy.
>> We are now uh about one week away from
military service members missing their
paycheck.
>> We'll always take care of our military.
>> Would you encourage Congress to pass a
standalone bill to pay our service
members?
>> Yeah, that probably will happen. We
don't have to worry about it yet. That's
a long time. You know what one week is
for me? An eternity.
One week for me is a long time. We'll
take care of it. Our military is always
going to be taken care of.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
signaling potential plans to pass a
standalone bill to pay service members
as the government shutdown heads into
its ninth day. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now. And Tyler, this is
serious. The fact that a number of
people, including the rank and file of
our service members in the United
States, are not going to be paid. What
is the likelihood that there will be
some sort of standalone bill passed?
>> Right. Well, Lisa, that's why I asked
President Trump this question about our
service members because it really gets
to the crux of the issue that lawmakers
are grappling with that the longer this
shutdown goes on, the more the pressure
is going to build. Next Wednesday,
October 15th, is the potential date that
our service members could miss their
first paycheck. However, we have heard
from House Speaker Mike Johnson saying
that he would not move a standalone
piece of legislation that would pay
members of the military. We'll see if
that changes on the heels of President
Trump's comments. But what the House
Speaker is doing is that he's really
digging in, holding the line for
Republicans, that they do not want to
negotiate. They do not want to uh attach
any other sort of provisions to the bill
that is currently in front of Democrats.
They want Democrats to pass that House
approved stop gap measure that would
fund the government until midn November.
And that's really the point where we are
at. They are adamant that the government
needs to reopen before there are any
other of these conversations. Now, you
heard President Trump there. He did say
that it is highly likely that this issue
will be resolved, but it's something
that we're going to have to watch
closely, including what paychecks could
look like when it comes to uh the rest
of the federal workforce. President
Trump yesterday seemed to be walking the
line saying that the majority of federal
workers will receive their back pay
after we did see that OM memo floated
that suggested that they are not
entitled to that back pay. And Lisa,
that really just goes again to the issue
that lawmakers are grappling with. We
have seen some solutions floated
including from Senator Susan Collins as
one example that they could explicitly
mandate this funding as part of any sort
of government funding bill. But again,
that would mean changing this stop gap
measure. And at this point, we haven't
seen any indications from the GOP that
that's something they want to do.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much. As
always, it's service members, it's
workers in the IRS, it's also food
stamps and air traffic controllers.
Joining us now, Don Schneider of Piper
Sunler. And Don, I want to just start
with this idea that you said, which is
this is more politics than about
negotiating for healthcare. Can you
explain why you say that?
>> Yeah, I think this this goes back to the
March funding fight. So basically, um,
House Republicans passed a continuing
resolution, a clean bill back in March.
Uh, Democrats never expected that to
happen. Uh, they were basically saying
they would shut down the government if
Republicans and Trump didn't agree to
shut down Doge. Um, of course, they
didn't really have any leverage. That
would create way more chaos than Doge
was creating. Schumer when that clean CR
came to him uh and the Senate faced a
binary choice fund the government or
shut it down he knew it was a losing
fight. So he chose to keep the
government open and progressives his
base kind of realize that's the worst
thing you can do which is not fight uh
President Trump in this environment not
even take a negotiating position or ask
for anything. So this time around it was
basically pre-ordained. If Schumer wants
to keep his leadership position or wants
to stay in the good graces um of of the
broader caucus he has to fight. So they
made that decision. We are going to shut
it down and kind of walk backwards. What
is our negotiating position now? And
that's not to say there aren't
legitimate grievances or legitimate
policy asks. You know, Democrats um do
want to extend healthcare tax credits at
the end of the year. They do want to
stop President Trump from uh rescending
uh funding that Congress has already
approved. Um but they aren't really
making the fight um about that um at
least on the recision side so much. So
that's why we are where we are. Um, I
think this is probably going to last uh
about 3 weeks or so. I think part of the
reason it's going to last so long, maybe
even longer than that, Trump has taken a
lot of steps that have made this
shutdown less painful. We're talking
about uh military pay, for example, and
how Trump's going to ensure that they
get paid. But if if he didn't take steps
to ensure they get paid, that would put
more pressure on Democrats to ultimately
uh give in and do the right thing, which
is to fund the government uh without any
negotiating demands. Well, Don, there's
a ton of talk about military service
members, more than 1 million active duty
service members that they need to get
paid, but I haven't seen a single piece
of legislation for them to actually do
so. Can the Pentagon just shift funds
around? How exactly could this work?
>> Yeah, so it's about a $5 billion
paycheck they get every two weeks. Um, I
think the Pentagon could do it with the
basically the budget reconciliation bill
gave, you know, tens of billions uh to
the military and what's considered
mandatory funding. it's not affected um
by the appropriations process. They
could use that to pay for paychecks. I
think that's what they would ultimately
um do. Uh but again, Trump see I think
Trump wants the you know the credit to
say look we're not going to uh you know
hurt the military. We're going to ensure
that they get paid. Of course that makes
it easier for Democrats to maintain
their position longer. Back in 2013 when
we had a full government shutdown, there
was a bill that was paid uh passed ahead
of the shutdown, the Pay Our Military
Act, which ensured that um the military
was indeed funded because, you know,
Democrats in that position uh you know,
Republicans at that time were the ones
making demands over, ironically, this
exact same issue, defunding Obamacare.
Um and Democrats didn't want to be on
the losing side of that. So, yeah, of
course, we agree that the military
should be p uh should be paid. Now the
roles are reversed. Uh Republicans don't
want to be in a position of kind of
letting pressure out. Um if they start
agreeing to these rifle shot bills,
okay, we're going to pay for Wick or
we're going to pay for the military,
then you just allow this to drag on much
longer. So I understand the the House
Republican position, which is, you know,
don't let any pressure out of the tent,
don't amend the CR. Um, but from Trump's
perspective, I think he can get some
political credit if he's willing to be
creative using that mandatory funding to
pay for for uh military salaries.
>> Don, I know the Democrats think that the
public is on their side right now, but
what's being offered is a clean
continuing resolution. At some point, if
this drags on, are they going to be the
ones that the public starts calling out?
>> I think so. I that this is the way it
always works out. you know, funding the
government um especially in a in a clean
uh bill um is the right thing to do.
It's something Democrats have always
been on the other side on accusing
Republicans, you can't use, you know,
funding the government, all of these
innocent people as hostages basically
for your partisan demands. You know, the
the reason uh you know, Democrats are in
the minority. They're asking for
something that is inherently partisan.
You don't have the votes for it. You
shouldn't hold government services
hostage for everybody else for it. So
that's it's a losing position. And I
think ultimately um they will have to
capitulate and get nothing to show for
it. I think part of the reason they're
sitting here longer is because it is
exposing some division among Republicans
or at least the lack of position.
>> Don Schneider of Piper Sandler. Thank
you so much. Wonderful insight as
always. And don't miss a conversation
with Hakee Jeff, the House Minority
Leader coming up next hour. Uh really a
key question for them. How far are they
willing to go? Coming up this hour next,
former senior White House adviser Amos
Hawkstein with a breakthrough deal
between Israel and Hamas. Plus, Danny
Burgerer with your morning movers.
[Music]
We are about 2 hours away from the
opening bell. We can see uh essentially
nothing going on in markets after a
whole lot going on. 33 record highs in
the S&P, 21 record highs in the NASDAQ.
keep repeating that because it's just
sort of shocking to me how much of an
upward momentum train this is and of
course futures were slightly flat ear
slightly down earlier. Now of course
they're up because what else are they
going to do? Meanwhile in the bond space
also quiescent which is giving rise to
what we're seeing in the stock sphere
especially ahead of that 30-year
auction. We've got 22 billion uh dollars
of 30-year bonds being sold at 1 p.m.
Eastern and still yields marginally
lower at 4.7%. I'm old enough to
remember when people were freaking out
about the long end of the yield curve. 2
hours away from the cash open. Here are
your morning movers with Danny Ber.
Danny, Lisa, there is movement here at
least for the airline stocks. A really
solid morning after about an hour ago,
we had earnings from Delta. Delta
reporting earnings that showed robust
demand for the coming rest of the year
and an outperformance in this very
quarter. It's because of the premium
offering and corporate travel coming
back. So the other airlines that have
also been moving to premium beat United
or American also rallying by more than
4% this morning. Uh elsewhere in these
markets some of the other movers are
looking at for earnings is Pepsi. Little
change. It was slightly higher now up by
just half a percent. It did have a
robust showing too. North American sales
up 2%. Its namesake Pepsi soda did well
as did Poppy's the newer I guess
healthier soda that it bought not too
long ago. Uh they did also name a new
CFO. that CFO coming from Walmart. So,
another maybe good company to put in
their arsenal. Meanwhile, uh also to the
upside this morning, it's the rare earth
metal companies that are having a big
day after China being more strict with
their rare earth export licenses. Even
if you have trace amounts now, you need
to get a license that comes ahead of a
meeting in just weeks between presidents
Trump and Gi. So, you're looking at
critical metals, for example, up 6.7%.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Danny. And of course,
there is speculation. Who else is the US
going to potentially take a stake in,
especially as the pressure ramps up from
China? More on that in just a second. On
our radar this morning, Israel and Hamas
reaching a deal for the release of all
hostages held in Gaza, a major step
toward peace. Israel agreeing to the
release of jailed Palestinians and
allowing aid into Gaza as part of the
deal. We're going to be speaking about
that coming up. Meanwhile, following on
to what Danny just said, China planning
to tighten exports of rare earths and
related technology. Beijing will require
licenses to distribute the items outside
of China. The move coming ahead of a
high stakes meeting between President
Trump and Xiinping later this month. You
can look at this as leverage or the
attempt to try to get some by China. But
it really underscores and this is the
point that you made earlier, Emory. I
think it's a great point what the
administration is trying to do with
taking stakes in specific key companies
in particular the lithium and other
metal space. The US can come out and say
look what China is doing in terms of
this chokeold. They own 70% of the
global supply when it comes to rare
earths. And they're going to use this
likely as an excuse to potentially
double down on this idea of state
capitalism and going after these
companies taking equity stakes in
industries that they deem critical from
a national security point of view. For
China, this is easy. Every time they've
used rare earths as a lever of leverage,
they've gotten what they wanted out of
the negotiating table.
>> At this point, the fate of the two
countries still tied. And that is the
lever that people talk about. Meanwhile,
Bachelor or Love Island continues.
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant
grilling 11 Fed chair candidates as the
search for J. Pal's replacement
continues. The Financial Times
reporting. Besson asked the contenders,
I mean about quantitative easing and
their position on interest rates and
what their favorite meal is. Meanwhile,
turning back to geopolitics, Israel and
Hamas agreeing to the first phase of the
Trump's ad Trump administration's peace
plan. Joining us now is someone who
knows this process very well, Amos
Hawkstein, former senior White House
adviser. Amos, thank you so much for
being here. What's your take on what
we're seeing right now coming out of the
Middle East?
>> Well, it's great to be here, but and I
think this is a great day. Uh, and
hostages are going to be coming home.
They have spent 2 years in Gaza in hell
and they are coming home today and or
this weekend hopefully by Monday. Uh,
and I think that is a good news story
and I think, you know, credit to the
administration, credit to Jared Kushner
who uh came in to to help uh lead this
process and take over uh some of the
negotiations and really bring it to a
close.
It's also a little bit of sadness that
this is something that we could have
seen months ago. uh there was a deal in
January that achieved the ceasefire
where the female uh and the older men uh
hostages came home. Phase two would have
been essentially where where we are
today. So we have to me it's a little
bit of a a tune of sadness of these
folks could have been home uh 9 months
ago uh nine months ago or eight months
ago uh many Palestinians would still be
alive Israeli soldiers and um the
horrific condition that Israel has seen
over the last many months could have
been avoided. Uh but that doesn't take
away from the fact that this is a good
day.
>> Who held it up nine months ago?
>> Look, I think there was a ceasefire in
January. phase two was supposed to start
on day 42. Um, and the Israelis didn't
want they thought they'd get a better
deal. Um, and they tried different
things of harder pressure on Hamas and
so on. I think that ultimately the
blockade for a few months and uh the
more severe attacks in Gaza. Those
didn't work. And I think that the the
very harsh criticism that has uh caused
an Israeli isolation in the world has
really uh proven to the Israeli
government I think that they needed a
deal. And
>> how fragile is this deal though? It is a
major breakthrough. But the next
question on everyone's mind is for how
long is this going to actually last?
>> It's the Middle East. So long is is
always a a matter of definition. Uh,
look, I think the likely scenario is
what's happening now is all the hostages
come home, prisoners get released,
Israel withdraws to a certain point and
then the day after, but in reality,
Hamas is going to be in control now in
parts of Gaza because there is no day
after. The key component that Israel
said in January it could not live with,
they're now living with the fact that
there is no day after before the
withdrawal. So, there's a partial
withdrawal, which is quite a lot. My
guess is it freezes here for a while
until Hamas is going to say, "I don't
want a change of control." Israel's
going to say, "I'm not withdrawing
further." That's so where phase two
goes, I don't know. But I think that for
the interim period or for the midterm,
we're probably going to see this subside
and not come back to fighting.
>> Long-term, do you think this could be
the opening for more stability and
expansion of the Abraham Accords in the
region?
I think that this does open the door for
normalization between Israel and Saudi
Arabia. Uh as you know uh Brett McGurich
Sullivan myself had negotiated um the
normalization between Israel and Saudi
Arabia prior and post uh October 7. So I
know the deal is ready. It's done uh or
near uh it could happen. I think Gaza
was holding it up. Uh so I think that
this paves the the the pathway to to get
there. I think that's very possible.
>> Do you have a sense of where the money
is going to come from to rebuild Gaza?
>> Look, people say the Gulf, right? That's
the answer today is where's the AI boom
going to be uh fueled in the United
States? The Gulf. Where is Gaza going to
be rebuilt? The Gulf. Uh where is soccer
tournaments going to be? The Gulf. Uh
F1, the Gulf. So, at some point, you
know, oil prices may have to go up for
all this to be paid for. But um but uh
look, I think it's going to be a
challenge. uh because I don't think that
uh Gulf countries see themselves as a
blank check. Um and and they want to
make sure there's no corruption. They
want to make sure it's paying for a real
improvement in in Gaza. You have to have
a security establishment. Is the
government Hamas? Is the government
somebody else who's going to be the one
in charge of distributing the money and
doing? There's a lot to be figured out.
This was a pretty rushed deal. I think
it's a very good that they rushed it,
but now there's a lot to figure out. So
we could have introduced you in many
different ways. You also work now at
TWWG and you are involved in some of
these uh deals in terms of the AI
infrastructure and energy and you know
the sort of this investment in the real
economy after so many years of the
financialization. I just wonder how
fully appreciated the rebuild of Gaza,
the rebuild of Ukraine, the
industrialization of AI is actually
being factored into markets right now
even amid the AI boom.
Look, I don't think it is, but I think
the market says that's government,
that's not us. Um, I think what we have
to focus on is how do we build the
infrastructure for this new world of AI
and there's a there's going to be a lag.
There's a mismatch here between AI
companies and technology companies that
operate really fast, very aggressively
spending money uh like we've never seen.
Uh and the other side is the
infrastructure that has to be built
which are utilities uh power companies,
power regulators, states, cities, locals
who operate very slowly, very
methodically, take years to build a
supply chain in the energy business that
is really constrained. Uh rare earth
minerals and and uh critical minerals
and metals that you just talked about,
they're critical for all of these as
well. And I think the move that China
just made is another signal of how
vulnerable uh everything that we're
doing is. And so I think there's a lot
to focus on and the market is I don't
know that it's pricing it in but there's
a lot of investment opportunity in if
you can figure out how to match the
energy piece, the infrastructure piece
and AI.
>> How far behind do you think the
electricity match is with what we are
seeing out of these companies when it
comes to billions of dollars spent on AI
and expanding these data centers? So
part of the problem of financial markets
is that we look at where we are today.
So if you look at the announcements by
just by a handful of the companies right
open AI or anthropic or lambda or XAI
etc Google Microsoft
that crisis is coming right how much
power can be built uh to match that
ambition and what is going to have to
give either the ambition is going to
have to be a little bit smaller or
there's going to have to be a change in
the investment towards uh energy
production and the infrastructure to
carry it and uh that's where the rub is
but that's also where the exciting
opportunity is for investment I think uh
to put money to work but it has to be in
a smart way because electricity on its
own does not yield I mean you know the
utilities don't exactly trade at uh at
uh pees that that um technology
companies trade in so there's going to
have to be some changes to how we do
this this business and we're going to
have to solve the the supply chain piece
of it uh where once again China uh looms
large
>> the more you talk you say the market's
not appreciating just how much money is
going to have to go into this. They keep
thinking the government's going to do it
and the government's strapped on every
front because of the fiscal uh overhangs
that we've seen from prior years. I just
wonder, are you saying inflation that
prices are going to have to go up of
precious metals? The prices are going to
have to go up of energy that goods
around the world are going to have to
experience this in a way that people are
not appreciating.
>> Well, I think we're we're not talking
about it, but electricity prices are
higher today and they're rising. And at
some point if you have AI companies
paying more for electricity then there's
going to be a mismatch between consumer
prices and uh and AI prices for
electricity. And if you're building more
that costs money and somebody has to
foot the bill. Uh tariffs are uh a
factor in the supply chain for all of
these things and uh for steel and for uh
for other products that are coming
through. Uh so we're already seeing some
of those prices coming up. Uh some think
the answer is we're going to take
stakes. The the state will just become
the economy uh and take you know 10% of
this and 5% of that.
>> Ask you about that because the Biden
administration also wasn't immune to
using national security as a shield to
do industrial policy. But what do you
make of this outright equity stakes in
companies that you deem their resources
are necessary to combat China? Look, I
agree with the administration's laser
focus on trying to have an industrial
policy of sorts and we were trying to do
the same. And this is not about
politics. America needs more
industrialization because we cannot have
critical materials that we need being
controlled 98% by by China. It's just
you can't. The difference is I think we
need to give the in government giving
incentives to the industry in the United
States to build through tax credits and
and grants and other and other things
versus I don't think we we're we're
capitalists at the end of the day.
Democrats, Republicans, we are a
capitalist country. China is not. So
copying China's model of owning the
companies is not the answer. China is
not a communist country either. It is a
autocratic form of capitalism. But
that's not what we want here. I think
that we should I I worry about too much
intervention in uh in the US economy and
I think it's a little bit weird that the
Democrat sitting at the table is worried
about government intervention in
business when it's a Republican
administration. So, we're living in
crazy times. Uh but but I but I I do
worry about that and I think that cap we
capital markets, the American capital
markets is the envy of the world. That
is what we have. That's our secret
sauce. Uh and that's taken us from
crisis to to growth every time. And so I
hope we're we stay with that.
>> Former senior White House adviser, now
TWWG Global, thank you so much. Amos
Hawkstein, really wonderful to have you.
Let's do it again soon. Right now, let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere
this morning. Here's a Bloomberg brief
with Yahara Antihara.
>> Hi, Lisa. Jimmy Kimmel said his comments
about conservative activist Charlie Kirk
were intentionally and maliciously
characterized.
>> I didn't think there was a big problem.
I, you know, I just saw it as distortion
on the part of uh some of the right-wing
media networks and I was I aimed to
correct it.
>> Speaking at the Bloomberg screen time
conference, Kimmel said his opening
monologue on the night he returned to
air was not scripted. Sticking with
media, Paramount is in talks with Apollo
Global Management for a possible bid for
Warner Brothers Discovery. People
familiar telling Bloomberg the talks
have also involved Apollo owned
Legendary Entertainment. Legendary is a
partner in many of Warner Brothers top
film franchises. Paramounts itself was
just taken over in a merger with Skyance
Media back in August.
And the Yankees season has come to an
end as they fell to the Blue Jays 5 to2
sending Toronto to the American League
Championship Series and sending the
Yankees back to the drawing board.
Sorry. Elsewhere, the Tigers defeated
the Mariners, tying that series at two
games a piece. And in the National
League, the Cubs avoided a sweep with a
win over the Brewers and the Phillies
staved off elimination against the
Dodgers. That's your Bloomberg brief.
Lisa,
>> that's just basically bait for Emory.
Yeah, exactly. I do know now what it
feels like to be a Mets fan. I will say
Toronto Blue Jays, congratulations. I'm
getting so many Canadian viewers tuning
in to surveillance and trolling me,
telling me to focus on, you know,
politics and business and and not
baseball. But you won the East Division
Championship and they are literally
pouring themselves with champagne like
they won the World Series. It's going to
be a bit of a long road ahead for you
guys. Just want to say that.
>> Okay. All right. You could throw all the
shade that you want to. All I know, all
I know is that this is also big business
and right now Yankees might be worth
just a little bit less, but we will talk
about that never again. Up next,
managing a monetary policy.
I
>> said before, the Fed told us concentrate
on mass employment, concentrate on
stable prices, right? Don't concentrate
on the political cycle. Don't
concentrate on anything outside of
those. That's what I think is important.
>> Sel Desiah Franklin Templeton joins us
next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
We don't have data, but what we do have
is probably more gains in equity
markets. Futures are uh rising just a
bit after earlier are falling uh just a
touch after 33 record highs of the S&P
500. Meanwhile in the bond market a real
question especially at a time of a data
vacuum under surveillance this morning
managing monetary policy. I
>> said before the Fed told us concentrate
on maximum employment concentrate on
stale prices right don't concentrate on
the political cycle don't concentrate on
anything outside of those. That's what I
think is important and I think that part
of achieving part of doing that is
actually sticking to the Fed's mandates
as assigned by the Congress and avoiding
mission creep.
>> Here's the latest. The Fed struggling to
navigate its dual mandate, especially
without data. September's meeting
minutes highlight meanwhile division
over uh inflation concerns that only
seems to be growing. Seliah Franklin
Templeton writing this. The awkward
reality is that the labor market is
still in line with the Fed Fed's target
whereas inflation is not even close and
shows no signs of getting there. Sol
joins us now. Sol, wonderful to have
you. Thank you so much for being here. I
want to start there. Are you thinking
that maybe this is a Fed that is
willfully ignoring the inflation side of
their mandate at a time where the labor
market is really unclear?
>> So, you know, I wouldn't go as far as
that. I would I would just say that
there there things we know and there are
things we don't know. One of the things
we do know is that inflation is
definitely not on on target. On the
labor market, it's far more unclear is
all I'm saying. And I'm not sure that
the Fed can fully ignore what's going on
with inflation, which is why I think
some of the market's pricing on quantity
and speed of rate cuts uh isn't really a
databased call at all. It's more a call
of what the what the market believes the
Fed would like to do and what the market
would like the Fed to do as opposed to
that third option is what the Fed should
do.
>> Well, we're in a data vacuum and it
raises this question. What do you do in
a data vacuum? Do you just sort of, as
you said, spin your wheels and take
vacation time? What are you looking at?
>> I am actually looking at what I've been
looking at ever since we got those
massive data revisions for the labor
market for the whole of the last year. I
looked at those revisions and people
were first terrified because, you know,
of course, we had created half as many
jobs apparently than had previously been
reported. But what it actually tells you
is very little about the strength or
weakness of the labor market. It tells
you that the US economy is probably more
productive than we thought it was.
Because certainly the earnings reports
are real. CFOs can't do surveys to
deliver earnings. Those are hard that's
hard data. So whatever we saw based on
earnings reports, tax receipts, these
things are real. And as such, all we
know is that that level of activity was
supported with a different baseline
employment level. So right now I
continue to look at that and things like
those uh earnings reports from everyone
from airlines to consumer goods
companies tell you a little bit about
the underlying
relative robustness of this economy.
>> Serious resilience at least when you
look at what's going on in Delta and
some other companies reporting earnings.
So the Fed doesn't have the economic
damage coming out of BLS. They have what
we're all talking about today. So why
are they going to cut at the end of the
month? because on balance I'd say
they've told us they will cut and this
is a Fed which likes to deliver what
it's I don't know that they will do it
this month by the way you know depending
on what we see between now and then
maybe there are other things which come
out we could also see see this end the
the current uh shutdown of all data and
the shutdown of government could come to
an end but that's not the real point
here everyone has been so focused on the
idea of a massive change to the Fed in
terms of being an enormously
doubbish Fed coming in. And what I would
say is I've said it before, we've always
had a doubbish Fed. We've had a doubbish
Fed since Paul Vulkar. We are not
changing the Fed's DNA really over here.
So, I think there's it's a little bit of
a red herring. And the last that's the
last reason I think the Fed will
probably cut. It wants to cut. So,
>> earlier this morning, we were speaking
with Phil Campelli of JP Morgan, and he
said that he watches the long end of the
yield curve. he watches the 10 year and
the 30-year to get a sense of how the
market is viewing inflation looking
forward and what you've seen is stasis
and you've seen a complete lack of
volatility which speaks to a a sense
that things are going to be okay and
that inflation isn't going to get away
from the Fed. How much do you want to
push back against that as a market
participant and and sell uh long
duration?
>> No, I'm not selling long duration here,
but I'm certainly not buying it. Does
that make sense? because I don't think
it's a screaming at this point because I
think there is genuine uncertainty on
the path of inflation in the sense that
if we do get budgetary blowouts first it
appeared the tariffs were which are
basically a tax increase we're going to
reduce on balance the budget deficit
relative to what we thought last year
now we're talking about giving away some
of this tariff revenue as opposed to
running a smaller deficit if that
actually happens we're once more in a
situation where actually you have fiscal
policy juicing up the economy and
typically that is going to lead to more
inflation. So I'm not I'm not a I'm I'm
not a seller or a buyer right now
because there is genuine uncertainty as
to what happens with on the fiscal side.
>> If you do take what Delta had to say,
what Pepsi had to say as not gospel but
the data that we have which shows a
resilience, how much are you buying
riskier credit saying this is a
reaceleration and this really has legs?
The difficulty that we all have is that
every single asset class is close to
historic types in terms of spreads etc
etc. So that is a problem. Having said
that there's a good argument to be made
to say that okay you know uh credit
quality is better. We're looking for
periodic selloffs bouts of volatility.
we're seeing precious few of them but
when we do we do jump in and we try to
add to some of the riskier sectors but
uh again given the under what I believe
is the underlying strength of the
economy I'm not anticipating a massive
spike in defaults so we're not actively
looking to sell credit down here either
you know I think I've used this before
but aggressively neutral what can you do
>> all I can say I'm smiling because uh
what we saw on Tuesday was a 4% decline
on the S&P and that was a buyable dip.
Solio, Franklin Templeton, I know we're
talking credit, but it's a similar
dynamic. Thank you so much. But really,
Edm Marie, that's what we've seen.
People looking for any dip to buy
because you can't really make a credible
counterargument even if you hate the
valuations.
>> You hate the valuations, but and it
makes you uneasy. You think about the
late 1990s. At the same time, you see
the tiniest bit of pullback and guess
what? You go in. That's the reason why
today we are flat. Coming up next hour,
don't miss this. Cameron Dawson of New
Edge Wealth, House Minority Leader Hakee
Jeff will be joining us. Richard
Bernstein of RB Adviserss and Israeli
ambassador to the UN Danny Denon. We are
uh going to be watching for any kind of
economic data coming from the companies
and the corporate earnings calls. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
The reality is there's a lot for the US
equity market to like. AI has the
potential to be the biggest productivity
enhancer for the global economy since
electricity.
>> What's different between now and the
late 1990s is that daytoday the
advancers are beating the decliners.
>> We're talking so much about AI now and
the market is melting up.
>> The S&P is just making new highs kind of
week on week and I think that's a little
bit cause for concern. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to the third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance. 90
minutes away from the opening bell as
stocks try to climb because why not?
That's what they do. Adding fuel to this
positivity is a deal in the Middle East
between Hamas and Israel. And right now,
we should be talking about jobless
claims. It should be a half an hour
away, but instead it's Delta Thursday
and Delta has positive signals for the
US consumer amid a der of other
information coming in rave from the US
government. Well, yeah, we're in a data
desert as the US government remains shut
and right now no one's blinking. So
unclear when we will actually get the
data because unclear when the US
government will actually open and we'll
ask Hakee Jeff about that, the minority
leader. But when it comes to Delta, what
they are seeing is resilience from the
US consumer. And you've made this point
consistently. It is not just those
sitting in premium business or first
class. It's also going on in economy.
They still see the consumer coming and
spending. Our customers financially in a
good spot, says the CEO. We're not
seeing any pullback in demand, which
makes you question why the Federal
Reserve potentially is going to cut
interest rates yet again. To build on
what you're talking about with Delta,
their commentary boosting other airline
stocks. So, it seems as though this
feels uh more broad-based than just
simply a Delta story. I'm looking at
American Airlines, those shares up 4.6%
in pre-market trading. United already
has had a pretty uh blockbuster year for
its share performance, up another 6/10en
of a percent. But it speaks to this
question of whether we're heading into a
reaceleration of the economy or whether
we're heading into a soft patch or
whether you can have the same thing at
the same time. this idea of the K shape
that maybe isn't showing up just as
much. I do wonder from the people that
we're talking to what the bigger risk to
markets is. A reaceleration or a
slowdown amid a real der of information
and frankly very split views.
>> Very split views. K-shaped economy or
the little I as Peter Cheer describes
what was going on right now where you
have the upper end spending and
continuously spending and the lower end
is where there is concern and that is
likely also what potentially Fed
interest rate cuts could help. What's
interesting is we're talking about
United, Delta, American. It's going to
be really important what the budget
carriers have to say. Are those
customers still showing up and are they
still flying and is there demand there?
>> Yeah. And how much is the likes of Delta
and United taking some of the consumer
base from the likes of Frontier and
JetBlue? Right now in markets, you are
seeing futures turning just positive on
the S&P. It really been sort of
fluctuating between gains and losses all
morning after yesterday's 33 second
record uh 33 33rd record high for the
S&P 500. A bit of dollar strength. Uh
and this is something that people are
watching whether we've reached sort of
the peak in terms of how much
depreciation in the dollar 10-year
yields up just marginally ahead of that
$22 billion in 30-year notes sold today
at 100 p.m. Coming up this hour, Cameron
Dawson of New Edge Wealth as stocks
trade near all-time highs yet again.
House Minority Leader Hakeim Jeff of New
York as the government shutdown reaches
day nine and the Israeli ambassador to
the United Nations Danny Denon with
Israel and Hamas agreeing to the first
phase of a peace plan. We begin this
hour stocks uh close to fresh records
driven by AI enthusiasm. Cameron Dawson
of New Edge Wealth writing the US equity
markets reliance on AI related returns
is very much being mirrored by the US
economy's reliance on AI capex for
growth. Uh Cameron joins us now.
Cameron, just how leveraged is the
dynamism that we've seen in the equity
market story to what we're seeing with
artificial intelligence?
>> Yeah, we think it's incredibly important
because the phrase always goes that the
market is not the economy, but what we
have seen is that this economy is
starting to mirror a lot more of the
market in its concentration and reliance
on AI. So we know that AI has been the
key source of upside for US equities.
But if we look in the second quarter as
well, it was the key source of upside
for the US economy. And we think we
called our four fourth quarter outlook
circles because it's not just the
circular reference and financing of
what's going on within AI, but the fact
that you now have AI driving the US
economy and US markets and US markets
are also driving the US consumer because
you have the top income consumers being
the key source of upside for growth. And
so this whole circular reference means
that if the AI story gets questioned,
then the whole thing probably starts to
slow down. But for now, we're not seeing
that AI story get questioned whatsoever.
>> Well, this is the issue. What do you do
if there is something that feels frothy?
Do you flee or do you get along for the
ride? Because it could be a long ride.
And right now, especially with what we
saw overnight from TSMC, it seems like
it's real. It's not just a sort of
fictitious nonprofit company from the
2000s. Dance while the music is playing,
right? So, we're still in a very
momentum driven market. We're still in a
market that does have a fundamental
underpinning because you're seeing
upward earnings revisions. The questions
will start to mount as we get into 2026.
If we start 2026, let's say we get to
7,000, you'll be trading at an
incredibly high valuation. You'll be
trading at 23 and a half times 2026
numbers. You'll likely have positioning
that gets very extended. you'll likely
be in a place where sentiment gets even
more extended if we get to that level as
we saw this morning with AI starting to
to to bounce up. So all of that sets up
for a tougher potential start to 2026
unless we get the scenario where we're
singing let's go crazy and party like
it's 1999 and you start seeing this
chase even further into markets which
could happen but as we know trees don't
go to the sky. So bubbles have the same
risk as they melt up that they could
melt down but again respect the
momentum.
>> What's the catalyst for a meltdown? Is
it just going to be seeing whether or
not these companies can deliver on
earnings? I think the other important
factor, it's not just the earnings side
of things, but we have to appreciate how
important liquidity has been for this
market. Liquidity is the reason why you
can trade right now at 22.9 times
forward. If liquidity starts to recede,
well, watching things like Treasury
funding, how that interacts with money
markets as the Fed is cutting interest
rates. If liquidity becomes less
supportive for this market, then even if
the AI narrative continues, it might
challenge the fact that we look around
and say everything is extraordinarily
expensive. But if Treasury pulls out all
the stops and Fed pulls out all the
stops to keep liquidity abundant, don't
be surprised if we continue to get
further and further into this valuation
rarified air. You talk about in your
note feeding the flames because we can't
let go. Shout out Post Malone. You're
talking about AI, but isn't the Fed just
going to be feeding these flames into
2026?
>> Yeah. We think that the Fed, the new Fed
very different than this old Fed, old
Fed balance between employment and
inflation. New Fed is cutting to 3% no
matter what. Meaning that even if you
see this inflation stay sticky, we think
that that Fed is going to be cutting
rates. The question is, what is the
consequence of that? What happens to
long-term interest rates in that
environment? It is absolutely incredible
that inflation break evens in 5-year 5
year forward inflation swaps remain
subdued. They remain well below they
where they were in 2022 which just means
that this bond market still believes
that the Fed, the new Fed is going to
tame inflation. I think that remains to
be seen. How can you bet against that
with the liquidity that you're talking
about? But we saw yesterday the 10-year
auction. It went fine. There was plenty
of demand today ahead of that 30-year
auction. I remember when people were
really worried about 30-year bonds. Now,
people are uh buying the 30-year note
before this auction. So, how do you make
a bet on what you're talking about given
what we're seeing in markets?
>> I think it's a whites of the eyes until
you start to see signs that there's
funding stress and it's likely funding
stress at the short end. Mistakes happen
at funding in the short end, meaning
that you have some kind of issues with
with Treasury funding, with bills
potentially as we get into 2026. That is
something that we'll have to watch for.
But for now, liquidity remains hyper
abundant. So woe is the person who's
trying to bet against it.
>> This is the reason why it's been such a
difficult market to really understand
exactly how we're fast forwarding. If
people really believe in the innovation
of the United States and they believe
that this is a Fed that is going to cut
to 3%. Is that why? And are you buying
gold? Well, I think gold is such an
encapsulation of all these different
fears. It's not just the side of things
that we know central banks are buying
gold because of the weaponization of the
dollar post the Russian invasion of
Ukraine. We know that that bid is there.
But gold is a way for you to express
fears about what's going on within
dollar debasement fiscal dominance uh
not just in the US but around the world.
Now we call gold a psychological
commodity because it's not necessarily
the actual event happening. The
debasement doesn't have to happen. It's
the fear of it happening that drives
demand for gold. very similar to things
like Bitcoin, but Bitcoin adds the
factor of liquidity. You have to have
abundant liquidity for Bitcoin to do
well even if those fears remain. So I
think tactically gold is overbought but
it has been overbought for quite some
time. Um so the trend is up and don't
fight the trend.
>> So are you just aggressively bullish and
feeling very nervous?
>> Respect the trend but don't ignore the
risk. Yes. Look, so our our our
positioning, we're we're suggesting
we're calling it the me, myself, and
Irene portfolio. Be optimistic, stay
invested, respect the fact that there's
tech uh optimism happening. Be
pessimistic. Understand that we're
probably not pricing in potential risks,
and then be nihilistic. Look for things
in portfolios that don't care about the
Fed, that don't care about about what's
going on within equity markets,
uncorrelated assets, things. So talking
about things like infrastructure for
example so not necessarily reliant on
public markets don't have high
correlations looking at overall
uncorrelated assets uh things very
esoteric things like water rights and
litigation finance things that are
outside of this market and don't rely on
or great building blocks for portfolios
to provide that diversification
>> how is anything though not correlated to
what's going on in Washington DC when it
comes to things like regulation a
tighter regulation portfolio IO under
Biden with this deregulation boost from
Trump.
>> Yeah, I I think that that is a that is a
fair point that the deregulation boost
is a rising tide that lifts all votes,
but we still have three more years of a
deregulatory push potentially before we
get into the next election. So if that
happens to be a tailwind, then you know
certainly something that can impact all
assets.
>> So besides industrials, what else
potentially could be nihilistic?
>> Well, infrastructure specifically. Uh,
so we look, we think that building
things like real assets into portfolios
also allow you to have that benefit of
of not necessarily relying on what's
going on within public equity markets
and having some defensiveness within
portfolios makes sense. Taking advantage
of of some of the the disruptions we've
seen in things like MUN markets as well
provides some opportunity.
>> Meanwhile, uh, we did see the Delta
earnings, we saw Pepsico earnings. Does
that make you a little bit more
confident in consumer cyclicals? I think
Delta is the perfect encapsulation of
what we've seen over the course of the
last nine months in markets, which is,
oh my gosh, I'm so afraid I'm going to
cut earnings estimates because of
tariffs. Oh wait, it's not that bad.
Everything is fine. And now, oh, things
are actually potentially reacelerating.
And so it's something that if we
continue to hear that reflected in other
earnings uh reports as we get through
the next few weeks, that could suggest
that maybe there's some more upside to
not just 2025 numbers, but 2026 numbers.
And our golden rule has been if 12-month
forward earnings estimates are making
new highs, so will the market. There is
a real question here about whether we
can see a jobless recovery, right?
whether we could see some of these
stocks do really well, the biggest
players uh continue to consolidate their
market share and still see a lot of
people left behind. How do you play
that? I mean, I know that sounds like a
sociological issue and we could write a
sociology paper about it and plenty of
people are and this is definitely
feeding into politics and we'll get to
that in just a second, but there is this
feeling that you can you have to account
for that when buying and selling. So,
how are you navigating that? The
decoupling that you're seeing between
growth in the employment market is the
encapsulation of that. The fact that you
have capex intentions surging and you
have employment intentions starting to
fall, that suggests that you're having
this environment where you could have a
a jobless recovery. And I think the
challenge that we have is when we look
at aggregate data, everything looks
okay. But the bottom 60% of the US
economy of consumers is really really
struggling. And it's starting to show up
in things like the New York election.
and it's starting to likely show up in
things probably local elections we as we
get into midterms is that you can't
ignore and this is what 2016 taught us.
You can't ignore the bottom 60% of the
overall economy. It may not show up in
the data aggregate because the top 10%
are generating 50% of consumption. But
the reality is is that bottom 60% are
voters as well. Cameron Dawson,
wonderful to have you as always. Cameron
Dawson of New Edge Wealth here in New
York. Right now, let's get you an update
on stories elsewhere this morning. And
here is your bloomer brief with Yahira
Anyhara.
>> Hi Lisa. Argentina's economic crisis is
escalating as short-term interest rates
soared Wednesday. President Javier
Mille's government has been intervening
on several fronts to stave off a
devaluation. But the interventions are
making the exchange rate stability look
increasingly unsustainable.
Meanwhile, the United Nations will begin
slashing its peacekeeping force and
operations as a result of US funding
cuts. According to a senior UN official,
the official who spoke on condition of
anonymity noted the 25% reduction in
peacekeepers worldwide will mean roughly
13 to 14,000 personnel out of 50 out of
50,000 will be sent back to their home
countries. And President Donald Trump
will undergo a physical exam tomorrow
following mounting questions about his
health prompted by swollen ankles and a
persistent bruise on his right hand over
the last few months. The White House
described the visit as his regular
yearly physical, but the 79year-old
president had an annual exam just 6
months ago. That's your Bloomberg brief.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yhira. Up next, House
Minority Leader Hakee Jeff of New York
as a government shutdown reaches day
nine. That's next. This is Bloomberg
surveillance.
[Music]
It has always been my understanding that
the law requires furoughed uh workers to
be to receive back pay. And of course,
that's been the tradition. And I'm not
sure exactly what the president is
referring to there there. I haven't had
a chance to talk to him about that
specific issue yet, but we will. I can
tell you this though, the view of the
White House, the view of the president
himself is that he doesn't want federal
workers to be used as pawns here.
>> That was House Speaker Mike Johnson last
night. Good morning. We are seeing
futures shrug off worries about a
government shutdown even as we get to
day nine of the closures. sticking with
the shutdown as tensions are rising on
Capitol Hill. House Minority Leader
Hakee Jeff of New York is confident a
spending bill can pass, but says
Republicans must first address what he
calls a healthc care crisis. House
Leader Jeff joins us now. Congressman,
thank you so much for being with us.
House leader, I want to just start with
uh whether you feel confident that you
can complete some sort of agreement in
the next few days. Do you have a time
frame as these discussions do continue?
Well, good morning. Great to be with
you. You know, as Democrats, we've
repeatedly made clear we will sit down
anytime, any place, with anyone, either
here at Capitol Hill or back at the
White House in order to reopen the
government to enact a spending bill that
actually meets the needs of the American
people as opposed to hurting everyday
Americans. And of course, that spending
bill must decisively address the
Republican healthcare crisis that is
hurting working-class Americans and
middle-class Americans all throughout
the country, including as it relates to
the urgent need to reauthorize and
extend the Affordable Care Act tax
credits.
>> Well, the speaker told us yesterday that
Congress is having these talks when it
comes to subsidies reform. Are you part
of these talks? And just a quick
condolences cuz I know you like me were
up late watching the Yankees lose and I
know you're a huge fan. Minority leader
Jeff.
>> Well, thank you. Um they had a great
season. Unfortunately, it didn't didn't
end the way that we expected, but on to
next year. With respect to, you know,
what the speaker has indicated, there's
been no conversation between House
Republicans and House Democrats or
between the Republican party, Donald
Trump, the administration, and any of us
on Capitol Hill, including uh
conversations that should be taking
place with leader Schumer and Senate
Democrats since that White House meeting
that occurred last Monday. That's
unfortunate. And the behavior of
Republicans since that point in time has
been unserious and erratic. And we
continue to urge them to find a path
forward, to sit down, let's talk,
exercise common sense on behalf of the
American people. But anything that's
done has to address this urgent need.
You know, the open enrollment period
starts on November 1st. Over the next
few weeks, tens of millions of Americans
are going to receive notices indicating
that their premiums, co-pays, and
deductibles are about to skyrocket in
many instances by thousands of dollars
per year. People are going to go without
health insurance, face medical
bankruptcy, and be jammed up in a
situation where they need care for
themselves, their children, and their
families, but will be unable to access
it because they'll be without health
insurance. It was a Democratic policy
though. Your party voted for this
temporary subsidy increase. Do you
regret having an expiration date on
this?
>> Uh, no. We were able to extend it uh
through the end of this year in full
anticipation
uh that any reasonable member of
Congress will understand that you cannot
kick tens of millions of Americans off
of health care that's become affordable
for them as a result of the tax credits.
Unfortunately, Republicans chose earlier
this year to pass their one big ugly
bill, largest cut to Medicaid in
American history, ripped food away from
the mouths of hungry children and
seniors and veterans. And they did all
of this to pay for massive tax breaks
that they made permanent for their
billionaire donors while at the same
time refusing to extend the Affordable
Care Act tax credits, which is why we
found our found find ourselves in this
situation right now. Leader Jeff, some
people would argue that what the
Republicans are are offering is to have
a clean continuing resolution and to
continue negotiating this given the fact
that at the same time they're going to
be service members who are not going to
be paid. There's going to be a question
around food stamps and whether they're
going to be funded. Air traffic
controllers are calling out sick because
they're not receiving paychecks. At what
point do you just say, "Look, we need to
keep people getting paid and we can keep
talking. We want to reopen the
government and we want to reopen it
immediately. But we also need to enact a
spending agreement that actually
improves the quality of life of the
American people as opposed to hurting
everyday Americans, which Republicans
have been doing all throughout this
year. And they've refused. They've
refused to negotiate at every step of
the way throughout this year. They've
taken a my way or the highway approach.
They've gone it alone. And now we find
ourselves dealing with this mess of this
Republican healthcare crisis and time
has run out.
>> Leader Jeff, uh, do you think that
you've gotten more leverage as this
process has gone on or do you think that
it's actually waning?
>> Well, it's actually not about leverage
for us. It's about the American people.
That's the fight that we're waging,
particularly in an environment where the
cost of living is way too high. People
are already paying too much for
groceries, for housing, for their
electricity bills, and now, of course,
they're confronting the very real
possibility of being bankrupted by the
rising costs of their health insurance.
So, we're just asking Republicans to sit
down and negotiate. That's what should
take place, not simply a my way or the
highway approach. Particularly when
they're asking Democrats to support a
partisan Republican spending bill that
continues to gut the healthcare of the
American people.
>> But right now, Republicans are asking is
to support a clean continu resolution, a
stop gap funding measure, which we've
seen time and time again that Democrats
also wanted Republicans to support in
the past. Why are Democrats choosing to
keep the government shut?
That's a Republican talking point,
unfortunately, that they are putting
into the public domain. It's not a clean
continuing resolution. In March, well,
>> I'd be happy to explain that. In March,
uh, the Republicans passed a partisan
bill in the House that Democrats
strongly opposed. We opposed that
spending bill because it hurt veterans,
hurt children and families, it hurt
housing affordability, and it hurt
health care because of the cuts that
were included in it. There was actually
a bipartisan spending agreement that we
reached last December that passed
overwhelmingly in the House and in the
Senate. It was signed into law by
President Joe Biden and it had the
support of then President-elect Donald
Trump. That would have been a clean
spending agreement that could have been
put before the Congress. Instead, they
passed this partisan Republican spending
bill in March that we strongly opposed.
And now they want us to continue to sign
off on that particular bill. That also
includes $500 million in cuts to law
enforcement grants to support police
officers all across the country. That's
just not something for a variety of
reasons we can support at this
particular point in time.
>> Do you think the Democratic party could
commit to broader reforms when it comes
to the Affordable Care Act and keeping
less of the subsidies? Could this be
potential off-ramp for a deal?
I think that our view certainly in the
House is that we will evaluate in good
faith any bipartisan proposal uh that is
sent over to us from the Senate if it
decisively addresses the Republican
healthcare crisis with respect to the
Affordable Care Act tax credits
extensions or any other issues that may
be put on the table because of the
enormity of the attack on the health
care of the American people that
Republicans have waged this year. It's
got to be meaningful. It's got to
actually improve the lives of the
American people. But unlike Republicans
who have adopted this my way or the
highway approach, we are actually
willing to sit down and evaluate in good
faith anything that could advance the
ball here for workingclass Americans,
middle-class Americans, and everyday
Americans.
>> Is there an opportunity for standalone
legislation to make sure that the more
than 1 million active duty service
members get paid next week?
Certainly, our view in the House uh is
that we should stand by our men and
women in uniform and make sure that they
do not miss a paycheck. Unfortunately,
Speaker Johnson has ruled that out,
saying it's not really an issue that
he's prepared to deal with in part
because Republicans cancel votes last
week, cancelled votes this week.
Apparently, they may not be coming back
next week. And what is that all for? Why
are they on vacation in the middle of a
government shutdown? Particularly as it
relates to the real possibility uh that
our military families might miss a
paycheck that they cannot afford to
miss. We're urging Republicans to get
back into town. Allow us to deal with
the military pay issue. Allow us to deal
with the Republican healthcare crisis
and allow us to reopen the government so
we can enact a spending agreement that
meets the needs of the American people.
Peter Jeff, we also saw a pretty
explosive argument between you and
fellow New York Congressman Mike Lawler.
And then you proceeded to call Lawler an
embarrassment on television. Was this
fight representative of the state
tensions that are going on within the
Republican party in New York State right
now?
>> Well, Magga Mike Lawler is an irrelevant
individual. He's a cloutchaser and he
was stalking the Democratic leadership
press conference in ways that are
unhinged. And you know, at the end of
the day, our view is the people who need
to sit down and have the conversation
with us, Republican leadership in the
House and in the Senate, the Trump
administration, including the president
or the vice president or anyone that
they designate, are the ones who are
ultimately going to determine how we can
find a bipartisan path out of it. and we
look forward to having those
conversations, but unfortunately
Republicans to date have declined to do
that.
>> Well, what was he doing that you deem
unhinged? And have you spoken to him
since? Have tensions cooled? It doesn't
sound like they have.
>> He's an irrelevant individual and as I
indicated, his behavior clearly speaks
for itself. Complete and total
embarrassment, as a description, was a
polite use of words. leader, there's a
question here about how difficult it is
to get to unify the Democratic party
because uh you know this is somebody who
is a Republican. He's not relevant in
his district and there is a question
here, especially in New York, how to get
some sort of cohesive message as a
Democrat. I'm just wondering from your
perspective, especially as it relates to
the Democratic mayoral race in New York
City. You haven't endorsed Zoron
Mumdani. How difficult is it to get sort
of a leadership view of where the
Democratic Party is going to go?
>> Well, listen, as Democrats, what unites
us is that we believe in a strong floor
and no ceiling. At the end of the day,
in America, you work hard, you play by
the rules. There should be no ceiling to
your success in terms of what you can
achieve for yourself, for your family,
and for your children. At the same point
in time, we also believe that in this
great country, the wealthiest country in
the history of the world, that we need a
strong flaw. That strong floor includes
Social Security and Medicare, Medicaid,
Supplemental Nutritional Assistance,
Veterans Benefits, and of course, the
Affordable Care Act. And what unites
Democrats at this particular point in
time is the fact that Republicans are
assaulting the floor that we should have
for everyday Americans while at the same
time rewarding their billionaire donors.
And by the way, in doing so,
skyrocketing the debt by more than $3
trillion in such a fiscally
irresponsible fashion.
>> Leader Jeff, you did tell reporters last
month you plan to address the mayor race
in New York soon. Do you have a plan to
endorse Zoran Mandani?
>> We're in the middle of a government
shutdown. People are being hurt all
across the country because Trump and
Republicans decided to shut down the
government rather than provide health
care to workingclass Americans. And so
what I've indicated, particularly most
recently when Mayor Adams decided that
he wouldn't seek reelection, is that I
will have more to say about the mayor's
race in advance of early voting in New
York City, which begins at the end of
this month.
>> House Minority Leader Hakee Jeff, thank
you so much for your time. uh and uh we
uh hope to get progress soon. Really
interesting to see uh how this debate
evolves as we are in day nine of the
government shutdown. It is clear the
Democratic part is looking at some of
the polling and they do see that at the
moment they are winning the race a
little bit. It's really on the margins.
But the longer this is prolonged, they
may be pushed to sign up, which we've
seen Republicans have to do in the past,
which is to a clean continuing
resolution to keep the government open
and then keep the discussions that they
want to have about extensive subsidies
when it comes to the affordable care act
and other issues remainder once the
government is open. When it comes to
Zoran Mami, he continuously says he's
going to address it. He's going to
address it, but he's getting a lot of
push back. the fact that he has yet to
decide who he is going to endorse for
the mayoral candidate.
>> Yeah, there's a real question about
exactly whether the socialist democrat
kind of view of the world can take front
and center with a number of the
Democratic leaders. Meanwhile, Marcus
looking past all of this seeing uh just
basically fluctuating between gains and
losses on the S&P after 33 uh record
highs on that index. 31 record highs on
the NASDAQ. What you are seeing is this
positivity as the innovation side of the
US economy does continue to chug
forward. One hour away from the cash
open. Here are your morning movers with
Danny Burgerer. Danny. Hey Lisa. Copper
stocks having a really good morning. Up
3% for Freeport McMarin and then
Southern Copper and those shares up 3.3%
with the metal itself trading around
records. China's come back from their
week-long holiday. So you're seeing
buying there. So the asset itself is
doing really well. Also some supply
concerns with various disruptions means
that copper is doing well. I should say
silver, gold, all of the metals having a
really stellar morning. Uh meanwhile the
airlines also having a stellar morning.
Earlier this morning, Delta reporting
earnings where they saw a very strong
demand to come for the rest of the year
and a third quarter that beat
expectations. It's because of premium
travel and corporate travel. So Delta up
7%, United and American also rising in
sympathy with those shares this morning.
Also, Lisa chairpointed the innovation
economy still leading us here. It is
Nvidia up another 2% this morning. With
late yesterday, we reported that Nvidia
has gotten export licenses to the UAE.
This is back from an agreement that was
struck between the US and the UAE back
in May about the UAE making similar
investments into the US and then getting
chips on the other side of that. So,
there you go. Shares up 2%. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Danny. And we also
saw TSMC with a positive earnings report
suggesting that the AI discussion and
demand continues to rise even as
smartphones still uh have lagged behind
for now. Turning back to the broader
markets as stocks trade near all-time
highs. Richard Bernstein of RB Advisors
writing markets are in some sort of
speculative fervor. It is very obvious
that investors are not riskaverse.
Richard joins us now. It's probably an
understatement. Richard, I am curious
whether you think it's gone too far or
do you get on the train and follow
momentum?
>> So, um, Lisa, good morning. It's great
to be with you. I think the problem with
being a momentum investor is never
trying to figure out should we get on
the train. I mean, that's easy. You can
see what's going on. The the m the key
to momentum investing is knowing when to
sell and when to get off, right? Like,
who sold technology stocks at the peak
of the bubble in March of 2000? That
would be the perfect momentum investor.
And we know from history that people are
very bad sellers. And so I think what
the speculative environment really shows
is that the most important part of a
portfolio right now is diversification.
You may want to play momentum, but don't
overplay momentum.
>> To just underscore what you're saying,
are you selling tech stocks right now?
>> So we um are have been famous or
infamous for not overweing them. So um
uh I I don't think we have to sell
anything because we're not we're not
overweight. I think what we've done
though, what we've done very effectively
in our portfolios is find other areas
that people are ignoring that are
performing quite well. You know, whether
that be non- US quality, whether that be
dividends, whether that be small and
midcap industrials. I think there's lots
of different things that have been
performing well that are way off of
people's radars.
>> But when it comes to historically how
it's difficult for individuals to sell
during all of this momentum, what are
you looking at that would give you the
signs that potentially this could be the
meltdown?
So, so I think you know like I if you
want to look for a risk, I think the
risk to look for right now is can the
Fed cut rates as much as the market is
presently anticipating and as much as
investors are presently anticipating.
And the reason I say that is that people
forget that the Fed is the central bank.
And that is the key word bank. And that
the way they impart monetary policy is
through the banking system. So if the
banking system is hesitant to lend, then
the Fed cuts rates to try and make the
cost of funding cheaper for banks to
encourage lending. If the if the banking
sector is lending too much and the
economy is overheating, the Fed will
raise interest rates to try to increase
the cost of funding to slow down
lending, which in turn will slow the
economy. So the question we should all
be asking right now and the question the
Fed should be asking is where is the
hiccup in the financial sector that is
constraining lending which is
constraining growth? I think that's very
hard to find right now.
>> Well, if there isn't one then do you
think the Fed should be cutting it all
the rest of the year?
>> Um I don't I don't look I can't tell you
whether whether they should or they
shouldn't. It's not like J Pal's calling
me up and asking me, Rich, should I
should I cut rates? So what I think they
should do may be irrelevant. I think
what's important is for investors to
think about that risk and to think about
what the outcomes could be and and what
I was saying before, you know, that you
may want to be better diversified than
you were a month ago or two months ago
or certainly 6 months ago. Um, and I
think that's the way to think about
what's going on here. I think it's going
to be more difficult for the Fed to cut
rates than they think right now and
certainly more difficult than the
markets think right now. You've been in
the market a long time, Richard. One
thing that's been very interesting to me
is how much the idea of diversification
has shifted over the past five years.
And I just wonder when you say
diversify, how much that has a different
meaning today than say the 6040
portfolio of your
>> Oh, absolutely. And I think part of
that, Lisa, is that the the 60%
portfolio, you know, your stock
portfolio has turned out to be like
seven or 10 or 20 stocks. And so how
much diversification do you even get
just by going 60/40? I think that's
right. I think one has to uh look at uh
should be looking at things like
commodities uh should be looking at
various alternative investments with the
with the reasoning that alts is is not a
real category. Like everybody likes to
say alternatives. That's kind of silly.
That's like kind of saying I want to be
invested. Um there are different kinds
of alts that have different goals and
different things like that. And I I
think it's worth looking at some of
that, but I don't think, you know, one
should be saying there's only seven
growth stories in the world. That that
seems silly to me.
>> Do you think that there is a story to
play? And I keep thinking about what
Amos Hawkin had to say, former White
House senior adviser as well as a player
now in the space of infrastructure with
energy and AI. I just wonder how much
the market has fully appreciated how
much investment has to go into
infrastructure and the real economy.
Certainly that is a very hot area in
private markets. Do you see ways to get
into that kind of idea in public markets
or beyond that haven't fully been
tapped?
>> So, so Lisa, I think the best long-term
investment story is all about small and
midcap industrial companies and the
re-industrialization in the United
States and the infrastructure that has
to go along with that. You know, one of
the things that people have talked a lot
about is is the price of electricity.
And and I don't know if you're aware,
but in the last 5 years, we have had the
biggest runup in electricity prices in
modern American history. They're up
nationwide by like 80% in the last 5
years. This has become, for those of you
who live in New York, New Jersey, you
know, this has become a big issue in the
New Jersey guminatorial election.
They're talking about electricity
prices. Well, you know, the the thing
that people always forget is that
bubbles misallocate capital and in doing
so they are inflationary and I think
electricity prices are a classic one
where we're building out data centers
before the infrastructure is built.
That's like building factories before
the roads are built to move the stuff in
and out from the factory. It's silly to
think that way. And here's a good way to
think about this misallocation of
capital that's going on the economy that
is so inflationary. Imagine if all the
capital that was going into
cryptocurrencies instead was invested in
the US electric grid. Would we be having
electricity prices up by the most in
modern American history? I don't think
so.
>> So, are you buying electric grid related
stocks? Is that sort of what you're
saying that that's that's where it needs
to go?
>> Well, it has been that has been a sub
theme of ours for like a decade. Um
there's nothing new for for those of us
at RBA. I mean it is it you know the the
notion of small and midcap industrial
companies includes you know things like
the grid includes all this kind of you
know industrial infrastructure uh type
stuff. So you know I always say to
people imagine if you go to a cocktail
party and you didn't talk about uh
Nvidia but you tried to get people
interested in carbon wire. I I think
you'd be the skunk at the cocktail
party.
>> It would go back to the graduate
plastics really enjoy that right this
copper wire. I am just curious going
forward uh how much you signal you take
from the likes of Delta and Pepsi
earnings coming out better than
expected. Delta in particular talking
about how uh travel is accelerating not
just at the front of the cabin but more
broadly even in the economy sections.
How much do you take that as the
economic data to hinge your head on and
sort of bet on even if you're
diversified the ongoing momentum in this
economy?
>> Oh well there's there's no question Lisa
about is the economy healthy, right? I
mean, the Atlanta Fed's GDP now is
tracking, if I'm not mistaken, at
roughly about 3 and a half to 4%. I
mean, that's that's pretty good growth
by US standards, I would say. So, so
there should be no doubt that the
economy is healthy. I mean, we could
argue about whether that's evenly
divided among the economy and how
that's, you know, what parts of the
economy are healthy, but the general
economy is actually quite healthy. And
and you know, if you think about nominal
growth, you think about that 3 and 12 to
4% real growth, plus you think about, we
could argue, let's say 3 to 4%
inflation, depending on how you're
measuring it. You know, we're we're
talking um you know, 6 to 7% nominal
growth. I mean, that's that's a pretty
strong environment. And that's one of
the reasons why I don't think people I
think people are overestimating the
ability of the Fed to cut rates going
forward. 7% nominal growth. I mean,
that's that's pretty strong growth.
>> Richard Bernstein, you're welcome at my
parties anytime. Richard Bernstein of RB
Advisors. Thank you so much uh for being
with us right now. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here's a Bloomberg brief with
the Hyra on Antihira. Hi, Lisa. A
Florida man was arrested accused of
intentionally starting the devastating
and deadly Palisades fire in Southern
California. Jonathan Renderneck is
charged with maliciously setting the
fire on New Year's Day. The Palisades
fire killed 12 people and destroyed
thousands of home in the Pacific Coast
area of Los Angeles. Meanwhile, the IRS
said that it was furlowing nearly half
of its workforce due to the ongoing
government shutdown. About 34,000
workers will be furled and the remaining
39,870
staff will continue managing the agency.
In a letter, the IRS said furled workers
would be paid after the shutdown ends.
And in sports, the Las Vegas Aces are on
the brink of a WNBA title after pulling
ahead to a three to nothing series lead
against the Phoenix Mercury. Four-time
league MVP Asia Wilson sealed the game
three win for the Aces, scoring 34
points and hitting the game-winning shot
in the final second. Game four tips off
tomorrow night at 8:00 p.m. Eastern in
Phoenix. That's your Bloomberg brief.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Jihara and Emory,
thanks you for not mentioning the
Yankees once again. Up next, setting you
up for the day ahead. Plus, the Israeli
ambassador to the United Nations, Danny
Denon, as Israel and Hamas have agreed
to the first phase of a peace plan. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
We've repeatedly made clear we will sit
down anytime, any place with anyone.
There's been no conversation between
House Republicans and House Democrats or
between the Republican party, Donald
Trump, the administration, and any of us
on Capitol Hill, including uh
conversations that should be taking
place with leader Schumer and Senate
Democrats.
>> That was House Minority Leader Hakee
Jeff talking about the government
shutdown that is in day nine. And based
on that conversation, it looks like
probably we're not going to get a
resolution anytime that soon. Doesn't
look like he was not prepared to blank.
Um they did say he did say that
Democrats will evaluate in good faith
any plan addressing uh the Affordable
Care Act, but you do have to remember it
is a clean resolution that is in front
of them. They've had had issues in the
past with the Republican party on prior
spending bills, but this is a clean
resolution to keep the government open.
And right now, polling may be doing
well, but if this becomes prolonged and
protracted, that is going to affect not
just Republicans, but also the
Democratic party.
>> Stocks stopped caring. They actually
don't think they ever really did care.
And right now, you do see a bit of a
lift. The S&P uh after 33 record highs
so far this year. Bond deals up just a
touch ahead of that $22 billion 30-year
auction. Crude prices basically flat,
cutting down to that opening bell.
Here's the trading diary for the rest of
the week. 11:00 a.m. Eastern, President
Trump hosts a cabinet meeting. 1 PM
Eastern, that 30-year Treasury auction.
Also today, another round of Fed Speak.
Friday, we get the University of
Michigan consumer sentiment survey at a
time where we don't get much of anything
else. Next week, more key economic data
that probably will not come out based on
that conversation that we had with Hakee
Jeff. Wednesday, we get the CPI data.
Probably not. Thursday, PPI and retail
sales and another round of jobless
claims potentially if that is what we
get. Turning back to one of our biggest
stories today, Israel and Hamas reaching
a deal to release all of the hostages in
Gaza. President Trump saying he expects
the hostages to be released probably on
Monday. Joining us now is Danny Denon,
Israel's ambassador to the United
Nations. And Danny, Ambassador Denon,
I'd love to get your sense of what the
mood is like in Israel and why it has
taken up to this point that really uh
got this deal together and really
changed the tone. Good morning, Lisa.
Thank you for having me. Indeed, today
in Israel, all around the world, we are
very hopeful. You know, we have been
waiting for this day for 2 years. We
prayed for the release of the hostages
and and we were very determined and we
say it very clear. This war will not end
until we'll get all the hostages out.
And I think that determination brought
us to the position where we are today.
And we want to thank President Trump and
Prime Minister Netanyahu for their
leadership. It's only the beginning.
It's only the first stage.
The government will decide in two hours
about releasing terrorists which is
painful for us and then we will start to
see hopefully the hostages coming back
home. That's the most important phase
but it's not the last one. You know we
have to speak about the future the
demilitarization of Gaza ensuring that
kamas will not be part of the process
over there. So it is a long way ahead
but we are very hopeful and happy today
to think about the hostages finally
reuniting with their families.
>> Ambassador, is it your understanding
that President Trump is going to travel
to Israel and address the Knesset?
>> Yes, you know we we expect President
Trump to arrive to Israel late Saturday
night or or Sunday. You know it will be
his first visit during this term and I
think for him it's very important. you
know, he was very involved with the
issue of the hostages. You know, he met
with the families. He he asked about
their medical conditions and and we have
to give him credit for that. And and it
speaks volume that he comes to the
region and we have to be thankful not
only to his leadership, but the fact
that now we can speak about expanding
the Abraham Accords, you know, after we
will finish this war. Israel is a
peaceful nation. We want to build
bridges. We we want to sign more peace
accords. And I think today when
President Trump in the White House and
Netanyahu in Jerusalem, we can start
exploring the opportunities.
>> When it comes to the first phase of this
peace agreement, where exactly do you
see the line where the IDF will withdraw
to?
>> Well, that was negotiated. You know, we
made some compromises over there over
that issue on on the last days. Erh
basically we're going to pull out from
the cities and you know we have no
intention to stay in Gaza. We don't want
to be there and we intend to pull out
completely but it will happen gradually
when we will see that actually Hamas is
giving away its grip of the of the
Gazans and allowing international forces
to take over. We care about our
security. That's was the reason we moved
into Gaza. You're the ambassador to the
United Nations where a number of world
leaders walked out when Netanyahu was
speaking uh just a couple of weeks ago.
I'm just wondering how difficult you
think it's going to be to repair
Israel's relationship with the rest of
the world given some of the animosity
that we've seen of late.
>> I think we will do it very fast. You
know, we have strong relationship with
so many countries. Many of them, you
know, made mistakes. You know, we saw
the difference between politics and
diplomacy. Some leaders like Macron and
others came to the UN for the show, for
the declarations. President Trump and
Prime Minister Netanyahu dealt with
hardcore diplomacy and brought results.
So, I'm sure that very fast we will be
able to work with those countries,
continue to contribute to developing
countries. You know, we have a lot to
do, a lot to share. We paid a heavy
price and I have to mention the price we
paid. more than 1,000 soldiers died
since October 7th. It's painful for us,
but we we are strong and we prevailed.
>> Ambassador, I'm also wondering about
whether there have been any discussions
to uh restart talks for to normalize
relations between Israel and some of
your other Middle East neighbors. I'm
thinking of Saudi Arabia where that was
clearly a discussion before this, but
others as well. Is that already on the
table or is that a long ways off?
We definitely expect it to happen. You
know, first we have to stabilize the
situation to make sure that actually
Hamas is out of the game. You know, it's
not a given. You know, we have to make
sure that they are out of the game. And
I think it will be the interest of
Israel, the US and many moderate
countries to move forward. And it's
important to mention that you know the
Abraham Accords countries sticks to the
peace agreement we signed with them even
though it was challenging and difficult
for them during the war and we
appreciate that. Are you concerned with
a fragile relationship with Egypt?
Earlier in September, we had President
Elsisi talk about the fact that Israel
was a quote enemy, and we've seen a lot
of acrimonious statements and
individuals saying it's almost the
closest these two countries have been to
war since 1979.
>> No, we have a strong bond with the
Egyptian government. You know, we we
know that during the war it wasn't that
domestic politics some of those leaders
and they had to play the game, but we
collaborate with the Egyptians and I
think now we should aim to expanding
peace. That's our goal in the future.
>> Well, when it comes to Egypt and Qatar
and United Arab Emirates, which you
already have a peace agreement with, how
do you see these countries working with
Israel when it comes to phase two and
three of rebuilding Gaza?
Well, I think it will be more than that.
It will require the involvement of more
countries and I cannot name names, but
we are talking with the major players
that are willing to contribute to the
efforts for the reconstruction of Gaza.
And it's not only physical
reconstruction. We have to build uh the
environment, a society that will not
glorify terrorism. You know, for 20
years, Hamas took the people of Gaza
hostage. And I think now Dava has the
option to build a better future and they
have to be responsible about it and not
allow radicals to take over Gaza again.
Danny Denon, Israel's ambassador to the
United Nations. Thank you for taking the
time. Right now, we are ahead of markets
digesting that agreement that happened
overnight with Israel and Hamas. Also
looking ahead to the economic data that
we are getting which is coming from the
corporate earnings stories more than
anything else. the latest Delta and it
really is a Delta Thursday on a day when
we aren't getting uh when we aren't
getting jobless claims. A really robust
picture and Amry, you pointed this out
and I thought that it was a really good
point that CEO Ed Bastion said, "Our
customer is financially in a good spot.
We're not seeing any pullback in
demand." He was talking about corporate.
He was also talking about consumer
across the income spectrum. Yeah, this
is pretty incredible given the fact that
actually they were waving the alarm a
little bit a number of airlines that
potentially the lower-end consumer
wasn't able to buy some of these seats
and but they're seeing this they're
seeing the resilience of the US consumer
across the space. I also thought
interesting Delta said they have not
seen any impact in its operations when
it comes to the shutdown. the shot. This
issue of whether or not you're going to
see flight delays was a pressure point
in 2019 when the FAA was saying all
these flights were going to be delayed
until LaGuardia and Orlando. President
Donald Trump caved at that point. This
could potentially be a pressure point
and Delta at this moment's not seeing
it.
>> Yeah. And we're seeing that kind of
ripple through. You saw the shares there
up almost 8% in the pre-market trading
and other shares, United and American up
more than 5%. We'll carry that story
forward ahead of bank earnings that kick
off with JP Morgan next week. Coming up
tomorrow, Christian Noling of Deutsche
Bank, Katie Kaminsky of Alpha Simplex,
Republican Congressman French Hill of
Arkansas, and Paul Christopher of Wells
Fargo with markets looking trying to
continue their string of record closes
heading in with a pretty flat uh
futures. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]